EMPLOYEE_ID	DESCRIPTION
1000176	Clinical:  Analytical flow cytometry<br><br><br/>Research:  Investigation of the basic cell biology of B chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the major research interest of the laboratory. B-CLL is characterized by malignant cells having an anti-apoptotic phenotype and the accumulation of malignant cells is thought to be primarily driven by a block in apoptosis. However, when B-CLL cells are placed in in vitro culture, rapid apoptosis occurs raising the question of whether there are inherent defects in the apoptotic regulatory machinery or whether the dysregualtion seen is due to paracrine and/or autocrine factors. We are currently investigating potential paracrine/autocrine loops regulating apoptosis in the malignant B cell population. Specifically, the potential role of altered cytokine production by tumor specific oligoclonal T cells in these patients and its relationship to apoptosis control in the malignant B cells is being studied. <br/>   Although proliferation centers are seen in B-CLL, an additional abnormality is dysregulation of proliferation control in the malignant B cells with few proliferating cells seen in vivo and a lack of proliferative response to a number of normal B cell mitogens. In fact, although non-proliferative, the B cells in B-CLL patients may not be blocked in G0 but rather at a later point in the cell cycle. The other major area of investigation in the laboratory is elucidation of the mechanisms of proliferation dysregulation in these patients.<br/>    Lastly, the laboratory is also involved in development of a number of complex multiparametric flow cytometry based clinical analyses both for diagnostic purposes (development of solid tumor 'immunophenotyping' panels) and for patient specific therapeutic decision/monitoring purposes including assessment of signal transduction pathways in the setting of kinase inhibtor therapies.
1000332	MRI, functional MRI, neuroimaging, perfusion, diffusion, cerebrovascular disease,caffeine
1000359	Messenger RNA stability, regulation of gene expression by protein kinase; signal transduction
1000436	neural networks, functional imaging, dementia, cerebral cortex, cholinergic pathways
1000444	Cell  movemnet, cytoskeleton, biological forces
1000475	Alzheimer's disease, Memory disorders, Neuropsychology, Early Onset Dementia, Primary Progressive Aphasia, Frontotemporal Dementia, Superaging.<br/>The ability to use language can be progressively disrupted by neurodegenerative diseases of the brain that target circumscribed regions that normally mediate language in healthy individuals.  My clinical and research interests focus on Individuals with Primary Progressive Aphasia, Frontotemporal Dementia and Alzheimer's Disease.  Research projects address the neuropsychological, neuroimaging and neuropathological variables associated with these syndromes, in order to contribute to our understanding of risk and the genetic factors that determine regional brain vulnerability to these diseases and to identify biomarkers that can be used in diagnosis during the patient's lifetime.  To date, there are no biomarkers that definitively predict the type of the neuropathology in these clinical syndromes in the individual patient.  Additional interests in the area of brain aging and its effects on cognition lie in determining factors associated with 'Superaging', the maintenance of a high level of cognitive ability into the 9th decade of life and beyond.
1000531	Acute medical problems in primary care, Palliative care
1000554	Gynecological malignancies, Gynecology early detection, Ovarian Cancer Early Detection
1000634	My main focus of interest is primary care pediatrics.  I practice at the Children?s Memorial Hospital Uptown Clinic, an academic community health center. I am also very committed to teaching residents and medical students. One of my main focus areas is literacy promotion in pediatrics.  I the Medical Director of Reach Out and Read (ROR) Illinois.  I am also the Chairperson of the Leyendo Juntos (Reading Together) National Advisory Committee for Reach Out and Read, working to improve ROR?s impact in the Latino community.  My other primary area of interest is health literacy. From 2006-9 I was a member of the AAP Pediatric Advisory Committee on Health Literacy (HL), and helped develop a Pediatric HL guide with plain language handouts, and a Pedialink module.  My other areas of interest include health disparities in Latino families, monolingual and bilingual language development and improving links between pediatricians and schools.
1000727	Dr. Leikin joined the administration of the Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center in 1989 and has served as the Scientific Program Director of the Lurie Cancer Center for more than twelve years. She has 16 peer reviewed publications from her laboratory research years.  Dr. Leikin has considerable expertise in integrating multi-investigator and training programs. She was instrumental in the Cancer Center obtaining a Breast Program Planning Grant (CA65764), a Prostate Program Planning Grant (CA69851), the SPORE in Breast Cancer (CA89018) and the SPORE in Prostate Cancer (CA90386).  Dr. Leikin has also served continuously as Administrative Director for the NCI-funded Training Program in Signal Transduction and Cancer (T32 CA070085), the Clinical Oncology Research Training Program (T32 CA079447), the Training Program in Oncogenesis and Developmental Biology (T32 CA080621) and the SPORE in Prostate Cancer (P50 CA090386).  Since 1999 Dr. Leikin has served as Director for the CURE  supplement to the Lurie Cancer Center?s Core grant (P30 CA60553)that enables underserved minority undergraduate students to conduct biomedical research during the summer months. Over 100 students have participated in the CURE Program.
1000732	<p><b>Clinical Interests:</b>  Brain aneurysm, cerebral arteriovenous malformation, dural fistulas, cavernous malformations, hemifacial spasm, trigeminal neuralgia, Chiari I malformation</p><br/><p><b>Research Interests:</b>  High resolution imaging for hyperactive cranial nerve syndromes (trigeminal neuralgia and hemifacial spasm), volume staged radiosurgery for complex arteriovenous malformations</p>
1000734	Areas of interest and expertise include robotics, neurobiology of the sensory-motor system and computational neuroscience. Among Dr. Mussa-Ivaldi?s achievements are the first measurement of human arm multi-joint impedance, the development of a technique for investigating the mechanisms of motor learning through the application of deterministic force fields, the discovery of a family of  integrable generalized inverses for redundant kinematic chains, the discovery of functional modules within the spinal cord that generate a discrete family of  force-fields, the development of a theoretical framework for the representation, generation and learning of limb movements and the development of the first neurorobotic system in which a neural preparation in-vitro - the brainstem of a lamprey - controls the behavior of a mobile-robot through a closed-loop interaction.
1000810	Role of sonic hedgehog and Bmp4 in prostate development
1000851	Comprehensive care of adults, Perioperative medical consultations, Preventive medicine
1000867	My research focuses on the evolutionary mechanisms underlying host?pathogen interactions, and their role in the emergence, spread, and containment of infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS. Studies examine the nature and extent of HIV genetic variation, the biological and evolutionary processes that have produced the observed patterns, and the human genes and their relevant genetic variants that contribute to virus evolution. The work seeks to understand how viral genetic variation, driven by host genetics and immunity, affects HIV infection dynamics and epidemic behavior. This connection is central to the evolution of virulence and drug resistance, and to vaccine design.
1000886	Coagulation
1000906	Angioplasty, Atherectomy, Brachytherapy, Cardiac catheterization, Intravascular ultrasound, Stents, Valvuloplasty
1000909	Our research focuses on cell cycle deregulation by DNA tumor virus oncogenes (Adenovirus E1A, Simian virus 40 large T, and human papilloma virus E6 and E7).  In particular, we are interested to find out how binding of these viral tumor antigens to cellular proteins such as pRb, p300/CBP and other proteins affect G1/S phase transition.  We use molecular genetic approaches to study these aspects.
1001011	Hematopathology
1001018	My research deals primarily with the characterization of morphological and chemical phenotypes of specific classes of neural cells, and how they develop and change under experimental conditions and disease processes.
1001027	Health services for college / graduate students, Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Perioperative medical consultations
1001035	My primary interest is in public health education of health care professionals.  My secondary interest is ethical conduct of human subjects research particularly in the area of medical research and Institutional Review Board (IRB) oversight of research.
1001070	Occupational lung disease
1001109	Depression, Eating Disorders
1001130	Prenatal screening and diagnosis of genetic disorders.
1001131	Gynecologic surgery, Gynecology
1001200	My primary research is in the area of health economics, applied to the specific areas of aging and disability, markets for hospital and rehabilitation care, cost effectiveness of medical procedures, and arthritis care. Much of my work has used large existing data sets, including Medicare claims data, to examine healthcare market performance in response to policy changes.  
1001204	Coronary critical care, Echocardiography, General and preoperative consultative cardiology
1001208	My primary research interest is the pathophysiology of viral infections in immunocompromised vs. normal hosts.  The main viruses with which I have worked include Epstein-Barr virus, adenovirus and the respiratory viruses (respiratory syncitial virus and influenza).  I also have done research on post-viral (chronic) fatigue syndrome and chronic granulomatous disease.
1001220	My primary research interests include developmental psychopathology, sensory processing disorders, therapeutic interventions and outcomes for children and adolescents, and family therapy.
1001222	Research interests include medical student mental health, personality traits, and the limits of evidence-based psychotherapy.  Clinical interests include career consultation and individual psychotherapy.
1001264	Inflammatory and infectious diseases the the retina, hereditary diseases of the retina,macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy
1001320	The  generation and mechanism of activity of Angiostatin.
1001348	I am interested in clinical skills assessment, standard setting and improving quality of care through medical education
1001386	My research and clinical intereats include topics in pediatric emergency medicine such as analgesia and sedation, pediatric resuscitation, asthma care, prehospital (EMS) care of children, and education of those involved in emergency care of children.<br/>I am involved in the Illinois Emergency Medical Services for Children program and have helped to establish prehospital pediatric protocols, and criteria to assure that emergency departments throughout Illinois are equipped to care for children (facility recognition).
1001402	My primary research and clinical interest centers around image guided therapy.  Specifically, its application to the treatment of uterine fibroids through minimally invasive techniques via uterine artery embolization.
1001431	Additional interests include diagnosis and treatment of lysosomal storage disorders, skeletal dysplasias, and inborn errors of metabolism.
1001443	Head and neck radiology, Interventional neuroradiology, Neuroradiology, Spine imaging / intervention, Vascular imaging
1001472	electrocardiography, QT interval, heart rate, cardiology clinical trials
1001554	Hypertension, Obesity, Pheochromocytoma
1001574	We are using single photon confocal microscopy to measure intracellular Ca cycling in individual myocytes of intact rat and mouse hearts. Hearts are loaded with the Ca indicator fluo-4AM, allowing us to measure intracellular Ca at the submicron level. Ongoing projects include study of changes in Ca cycling in animal models of heart failure, catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, spontaneous Ca release and cardiac arrhythmias.
1001575	Emergency medical services for children, emergency and disaster preparedness, health care access, pediatric trauma care, pediatric patient safety, pediatric emergency medicine
1001581	Valvular and Coronary heart disease. Cardiac Imaging.
1001613	adenosine, synaptic transmission, neurotransmitter release, <br/>secretion, ion channels, neuromuscular junction, 
1001662	General surgical pathology, Gynecological pathology
1001676	Foot & ankle problems, General Orthopaedics, Limb lengthening & deformities, Osteomyelitis, Treatment of complex fractures
1001679	Dr. Goodman's research interests include health services research, evidence-based medicine, outcomes analysis, and clinical studies of new therapies.  She obtained her Masters of Science in Epidemiology from the Harvard School of Public Health in 2001.  She has most recently participated in several studies using large databases, such as the Pediatric Health Information System of the Child Health Corporation of America, and the Virtual PICU dataset.  She is an active member of the research network Pediatric Acute Lung Injury and Sepsis Investigators (PALISI).  She is the local PI for the NIH-funded study Therapeutic Hypothermia after Pediatric Cardiac Arrest (THAPCA, www.thapca.org).<br/>Dr. Goodman is also very involved in medical education, particularly graduate medical education.  She has participated in administrative, educational, and scholarly work in this area and oversees all fellowships at Children's Memorial Hospital.<br/>Clinical interests center around pediatric critical care medicine, pediatric cardiac critical care, ECMO, and cardiac and respiratory dysfunction and innovative approaches to management.
1001725	Colon cancer, Gastric cancer, Pancreas cancer, Rectal cancer
1001728	General cardiology, Preventive cardiology, Stress testing, Nuclear cardiology, Cardiac MRI
1001728	Research interests include testing of new pharmacologic stress agents, myocardial perfusion imaging (nuclear), and assessment of myocardial perfusion and viability by MRI.
1001774	Alzheimer's and Frontal dementias, Other dementias, Aphasia, Learning disabilities and ADD/ADHD, Functional Brain Imaging, Disorders of higher cortical function (amnesia, agnosia, neglect, etc.) due to stroke, epilepsy, dementia, etc.
1001785	Kidney transplantation, nephrotic syndrome, pediatric kidney diseases
1001786	I am interested in streptococcal pharyngitis, injury prevention, and medical education.
1001801	I study the natural history and treatment of optic pathway tumors in children who <br/>have neurofibromatosis-1.
1001883	How memory is stored in the brain: molecular and cellular bases
1001887	Autoimmunity & Tolerance to Nucleosomes, Apoptosis, Peptide Epitope Therapy, Signaling Threshold, Lupus.
1001887	We have established that in systemic lupus (SLE), the immune system responds abnormally to nucleosomes, the major products of body's own cells undergoing apoptosis (J. Exp. Med. 177:1367, 1993). Our main research programs involve studies on the origins of autoimmune response to nucleosomes, and signaling defects in autoimmune T and B cells that lead to abnormal co-stimulation and apoptosis-resistance. Work is progressing in parallel in lupus patients and mouse models of lupus we developed (Nature 263:412, 1976). <br/>We have identified nucleosomal peptide epitopes critical for cognate interactions between the autoimmune T helper (Th) cells and anti-DNA B cells in murine and human lupus (J. Exp. Med. 183:2459, 1996). Recognition of these autoepitopes by lupus T cell receptors (TCR) is highly promiscuous which makes the peptides extremely potent for therapy of established lupus autoimmunity by a mechanism we call 'tolerance spreading'. We have also developed transgenic mice, bearing nucleosome-specific TCR genes, to determine how the autoimmune T cells escape censorship in the thymus despite exposure to apoptosis products, and how they could be regulated in the periphery. <br/>Moreover, we found that the Th and B cells of lupus have defects that lower their threshold for costimulatory signaling and make them resistant to anergy induction. These defects lead to sustained production of pathogenic autoantibodies. We are studying new pathways for resistance to anergy and activation induced death in autoimmune T cells of lupus, as revealed by differential gene expression profiling.
1001926	I am interesting in medical education in the field of radiology at multiple levels, as well as overall health care policy and quality. Radiation exposure for medical imaging is becoming a big quality and safety issue. Within the field of radiology I am most interesed in ultrasound. 
1001944	My current research interests lie in 1) understanding the relationship between community factors and clinical ones, particularly related to childhood obesity; 2) early origins of childhood obesity; 3) means to intervene to reduce obesity and its co-morbidities in young children; 4) the effects of community based interventions on obesity prevalence and health behaviors.
1001981	We are primarily conducting translational research, some of which is in conjunction with a colleague in anthropology, Dr. Gillian Bentley.  We have studied hormone differences between populations of women in the developing countries of Bolivia and Bangladesh and the Western countries, US and UK.  Salivary progesterone concentrations are significantly lower in women of developing countries, and migrant studies show that the age of the migrants is critical in the adaptation of the Western hormone patterns.  Adult migrants do not adapt to the higher progesterone levels.  Salivary estradiol is not significantly different between these population groups.  We are interested in the relation of hormone levels to fertility and to breast cancer incidence.  Other studies involve Dr. Seema Khan, Department of Surgery.  We are studying hormone and products of hormone action in nipple aspirate fluid and breast random fine-needle aspirates from women with different levels of breast cancer risk to ascertain the associations of hormones with the potential for breast cancer development.  The very small samples obtained make the procedure more acceptable than other biopsy procedures but the amount of biomarkers in the samples are limiting.  For this purpose we are working with Dr. Chad Mirkin and others in the Nanotechnology Program to develop assays with several-fold greater sensitivities than the current immunoassays.  We are also funded to study the potential for transdermal application of the biologically active metabolite of tamoxifen to the breast as an alternative to oral administration of tamoxifen.  We are working with Dr. Dean Ho of the Bioengineering Faculty to develop more efficient delivery systems for this application.  Potentially, this will eliminate some of the undesirable side-effects of tamoxifen that cause a majority of women to reject the prophylactic use of tamoxifen.  
1002007	Interventional cardiology. Catheter closure of VSD, PDA, ASD, Arteriovenous malformations. Catheter therapy of valvar and vascular obstruction: pulmonary valve stenosis, aortic valve stenosis, coarctation of the aorta, pulmonary artery stenosis.<br/>Transcatheter implantation of the Melody Pulmonary Valve
1002038	General cardiology, Heart failure, Ischemic heart disease, Prevention of heart disease
1002038	Mihai Gheorghiade, MD, FACC, FCCP, FACP<br/>Dr. Gheorghiade is currently Professor of Medicine and Surgery, Associate Chief of the Division of Cardiology, Chief of the Cardiology Clinical Service, and Director of the Telemetry Unit at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.  He obtained his MD, Magna Cum Laude, from the University of Rome in 1972 and did his training in internal medicine and cardiology at Brown University.  Subsequently, he moved to Virginia, where he became Chief of Cardiology at the Salem VA and Associate Professor of Medicine at the University of Virginia.  Then, he became Chief of the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit at the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, Michigan and Associate Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University of Michigan.  From there, he moved to his current position in Chicago.  Dr. Gheorghiade was a visiting professor at the major universities in the United States and abroad and received numerous awards for teaching from both medical students and residents.  He is a member of many national and international committees and serves on the editorial board of many journals including the American Heart Journal, The American Journal of Cardiology, and the Journal of the American College of Cardiology.  Dr. Gheorghiade served as a guest editor on numerous occasions for the American Journal of Cardiology, American Heart Journal, and American Journal of Medicine.  He was/is Chairman of the Steering Committee for many heart failure trials including OPTIME, ACTIV, IMPACT, PRESERVD, STEP-CHF, URGENT, and HORIZON.  He is co chairing the ongoing, international EVEREST trial and was a member of the Steering Committee of RADIANCE, FIRST, CARS, RITZ 4, EPHESUS,  OPTIMIZE-HF, and IMPROVE-HF Dr. Gheorghiade is the author of more than 300 publications.  He was the Chairman/Co-chairman of numerous international and national meetings.  At present, his research interests are related to the pathophysiology, prognosis, and management of hospitalized patients with heart failure and the roles of vasopressin antagonist in heart failure.  
1002042	Neuropathology
1002052	PACS, Workstation, RIS, DICOM, HL7, Data Mining, 
1002062	Hodgkin's disease, Leukemia, Lymphoma, Transplantation
1002062	I have been studying biologic correlates of outcome measures in the context of the US Intergroup CHOP vs. Rituximab(R)-CHOP clinical trial for diffuse, large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The addition of R to conventional CHOP chemotherapy either as induction or maintenance has now been shown to improve outcome in patients with DLBCL (both US and European trials).  My findings suggest this improvement in outcome is primarily due to the beneficial effect of R added to CHOP in the bcl-6 negative subset of DLBCL. Furthermore, addition of rituximab to CHOP chemotherapy, does NOT benefit patients who are bcl-6+, the majority of cases.  Differences between the clinical behavior of bcl-6 positive and negative lymphoma provide clues to the underlying biologic nature of DLBCL. Different therapeutic strategies may be designed to specifically target bcl-6-positive and negative DLBCL based upon differences in their underlying cell survival mechanisms and sensitivity to chemotherapy and rituximab. Analysis of additional biologic markers (p53, p21) is in progress.  Along with Dr. John Reed of the Burnham Institute, a long-standing collaborator, we are investigating protein expression of paracaspase in  lymphomas.In collaboration with Dr. E. Terry Papoutsakis of the Department of Chemical Engineering, NU, we are creating  gene expression arrays on follicular lymphomas to identify patterns of gene expression reflective of the nonmalignant cells component of the biopsy specimen, and their relationship to clinical outcome.<br/>Radioimmunotherapy using anti-CD20 reagents targets radiation to the malignant lymphocytes and their immediate neighbors by means of the cross-fire effect.  To improve outcomes, we have added Y-90-ibritumomab tiuxetan to conventional BEAM chemotherapy for patients undergoing autologous stem cell transplant.  This was an investigator initiated phase I trial conducted under an investigator-held IND.  Colleagues at the Mayo Clinic were our co-investigators.  Forty-three patients were accrued to this study;  the maximal tolerated dose of Y-90-Ibritumomab tiuxetan is one that will deliver 1500 cGy to critical organs.  We are recommending a phase II trial of this radioimmunotherapeutic at 1.0 mCi/kg administering higher doses of Y-90-ibritumomab  tiuxetan be conducted prior to proceeding to a phase III randomized trial.<br/>Continuing in our efforts to develop novel therapies for patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, I have written a phase I trial to combine bortezomib, the proteosome inhibitor, with Y-90-ibritumomab tiuxetan for patients with follicular lymphoma. This study has just opened.<br/>Other clinical investigations include anti-idiotype vaccines, novel targeted agents such as histone deacetylase inhibitors and new monoclonal reagents such as the  anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody and an anti-CD22 chemoimmunoconjugate. In the context of our recently submitted SPORE in Lymphoma application, I will lead studies of targeted 'nanobins' created by Dr. O'Halloran, and help to develop bcl-6 peptide inhibitors for clinical use with Drs. Licht and Melnick (Albert Einstein).  
1002064	Dr Kahrilas' research focus is on esophageal and oropharyngeal physiology and pathophysiology.  Oropharyngeal studies are aimed at describing the normal mechanics of swallowing and the modifiability that can be imposed therapeutically.  These studies use computerized analysis of manometric and videofluorographic swallowing studies.  Pathophysiologic studies of the oropharynx focus on mechanisms that result in dysphagia and the efficacy of volitional compensatory strategies in modifying these defects.  Esophageal research has centered on the motor activity of the upper esophageal sphincter, peristaltic function, the pathophysiology of esophageal motor disorders, and the pathophysiology of gastroesophageal reflux disease.  Upper esophageal sphincter investigations utilized manometry and videofluoroscopy to describe reflexive response to esophageal stimuli, as well as normal activity during sleep, acid reflux, meals, and swallowing.  Studies of the esophageal body have described the contractile pattern of longitudinal muscle during peristalsis and are examining the efficacy of peristaltic function in effecting volume clearance and relating this quantitative assessment of peristaltic efficacy to the subjective experience of dysphagia.  Investigations of reflux disease are examining the mechanisms by which anatomic variables, inclusive of but not limited to hiatus hernia, interact with physiological responses to modulate disease severity.  A current research focus is on applying high-resolution solid-state manometry to the analysis of esophagogastric junction pathophysiology both with respect to reflux disease and esophageal motor disorders. <br/>Previous research interests have included central nervous system neurophysiology, autonomic nervous system neurophysiology as it relates to sodium homeostasis, and screening for esophageal cancer. 
1002064	Esophageal disorders, Gastroesophageal reflux disease, Swallowing disorders
1002079	competitive, inhibition, uterine, contractions, preterm- labor, peptides, oxytocin, antagonists, breakdown, metabolism
1002095	Adolescent Psychiatry, Normality, Longitudinal Studies
1002126	My research interests include HIV prevention for high risk populations, health promotion with underserved populations and clinical research of co-ocurring mental health and substance abuse in incarcerated individuals.
1002139	Asthma, Lung Function, Clinical Trials
1002139	I am exploring the role of diet in asthma severity, especially the effect of dietary antioxidants and soy isoflavones.
1002194	global control of cell function<br/>genome sequence architecture and genome navigation
1002205	My primary research/clinical interest of longest standing is in the area of medical anthropology; specifically, dealing with all of those factors, processes, and practices--biological and cultural--that are associated with either promoting or impeding healing in all of its aspects (i.e., from somatic wound healing to psychic healing).  Regarding healing, I have particular interest in mind-body integration and psychoneuroimmunology.  In the area of my own professional clinical activity, my longest standing interest is in bringing existentially informed approaches to the practice of making effective healing relationships with individuals and their families who are contending with serious medical problems and/or life-shattering events which have a medical dimension. 
1002238	Primary clinical interest is in administration of correctional psychiatry programs in the Cook County Jail and the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center.
1002248	My primary clinical interest is preventative health care strategies for women of all ages with a special focus on Menopause, Bone health/Densitomety and cardiovascular health. I am also very interested in minimally invasive surgery such as endometrial ablation for abnormal bleeding and hysteroscopic sterilization.
1002252	I am a clinical psychologist who is primarily interested in providing psychotherapy to individuals and couples coping with mental health symptoms, life transitions and the diagnosis and treament of cancer.  <br/>My research interests include psychological sequelae of a cancer diagnosis.
1002340	I have been interested in community mental health and have published in the field of rural psychiatry.  I am currently interested in cognitive disorders and associated psychiatric syndromes in my work at the Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease Center. 
1002357	Development of novel therapeutics; cancer signaling; cancer metabolism
1002357	Steven Rosen, MD, FACP, is Genevieve Teuton Professor of Medicine, at the Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University and Director of the Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center of Northwestern University and Director of Cancer Programs at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.  Following his graduation with distinction from Northwestern University Medical School's Six-Year Honors Program in 1976, Dr. Rosen completed his residency in Internal Medicine at Northwestern and a fellowship in Medical Oncology at the National Cancer Institute. Dr. Rosen's laboratory research focuses on experimental therapeutics and hematologic malignancies.  Dr. Rosen has received numerous grants awards and contracts and has published more than 200 scientific papers.  As Director of the Cancer Center, Dr. Rosen has successfully competed for an NCI Cancer Center Support Grant, NCI grants for his laboratory research, an NCI RAID Contract grant for the development of a novel purine analog, and grants from the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society of America and the American Cancer Society.<br/>Dr. Rosen serves on several editorial boards and is editor of Cancer Treatment & Research.  He is a member of all major national associations that focus on oncology and has held leadership positions in the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group, the American Association of Cancer Institutes and the National Comprehensive Cancer Network.  He serves on the advisory boards of several NCI-designated Cancer Centers, the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society of America, the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation, the Lymphoma Research Foundation and the Wendy Will Cancer Research Foundation.  He has also served as an advisor to Great Britain's Cancer Research Campaign.  Dr. Rosen was the recipient of Northwestern University Medical School's Alumni Achievement Award (1994), the Martin Luther King Humanitarian Award from Northwestern Memorial Hospital (1995), the Marv Samuel Award from the Chicago Baseball Cancer Charities (1996) and recognition from the Women's Board of Northwestern Memorial Hospital for Compassionate Care (1996).  He is acknowledged in Best Doctors in America and Best Doctors in Chicago.
1002413	transformation, mesothelioma, cyclins, phosphatases, apoptosis, transactivation
1002417	Clinical research interests include pituitary disease leading to hypopituitarism or hormonal excess syndroms, such as acromegaly, hyperprolactinemia and Cushing's disease.  Basic research interests are focused on the growth hormone-IGF I axis.  Currently ongoing studies include the characterization of genetic GHRH receptor deficiency and the evaluation of tissue-specific growth hormone actions using a growth hormone receptor knockout model.
1002417	growth hormone, growth hormone action, growth hormone receptor, growth hormone binding protein, growth hormone releasing hormone receptor, insulin-like growth factor, growth, development, metabolism
1002485	Dr. Rothke's clinical work and research involves professional issues in neuropsychology such as expert testimony, disability determination, competency evaluation (ability to work, manage finances, and manage personal affairs, and assessment of testamentary capacity), development of job modifications to accommodate a mental or emotional disability, evaluation of risk for violence and determination of fitness-for-duty, and assessment of malingering and exaggerated claims of impairment.  
1002521	learning and memory, multiple single-unit electrophysiology, behavior, classical conditioning, transgenic mice, knockout mice, alzheimer's disease, hippocampus, cerebellum, aging
1002526	Research Interests: Comparative Anatomy of the Larynx<br/>                                    Neuromuscular Physiology of the Larynx<br/>                                     History of Medicine<br/>Clinical Interests:    Human Anatomy<br/>                                        Head & Neck Region
1002530	My research and clinical interests focus on children with arthritis, and the use of informatics to improve quality and research projects, by coordinating flow of data from diverse sources, including the electronic medical record.  I participate in a multi-center Quality Improvement network as well as multi-center trials of novel treatments of children with arthritis.
1002615	I am primarily involved in health literacy advocacy, research and incorporation of this into clinical care, as well as medical home and medical education about the medically complex child
1002617	Gonadal Development, Pituitary, Gonadotropins, Activin, LH, FSH
1002617	My overall interests are in mammalian reproduction. In previous years, I studied the regulation of pituitary gondaotropin gene expression and hormone secretion. More recently, I have been working on two topics. The first is trying to determine the genetic cascades involved in male/female sex determination and subsequent development of the gonad. Most of this time is spent on a genome-wide mutagenesis screen for genes involved in spermatogenesis. The second is the control of gene expression by estrogen receptor alpha via mechanisms that do not involve the classical estrogen response element in DNA (the so-called 'non-classical' mechanisms).
1002633	Angina with normal coronary arteries, Coronary artery disease, Coronary circulatory abnormalities
1002643	epidemiology of systemic lupus erythematosus, pregnancy and rheumatic diseases, osteoporosis, steroid-induced osteoporosis, clinical drug trials in lupus
1002644	gender and arrhytmias, dynamics of fibrillation
1002699	GLI transcription factors, genetics and biochemical mechanisms of action in normal development and disease states.<br/>Stem cell allocation in organ development.<br/>http://www.childrensmrc.org/iannaccone/
1002702	Adrenal tumors, Endocrine tumors, Hyperparathyroidism, Islet cell tumors of pancreas, Laparoscopic adrenal surgery, Minimally invasive parathyroid surgery, Parathyroid tumors, Pheocromocytoma, Thyroid cancer, Thyroid tumors
1002719	Clinical research in methods of testing for diabetic peripheral neuropathy
1002721	Education Processes, Teaching Learning, Gender issues in Health care
1002791	My primary research relates to the signaling pathways involved in hormone action on osteoblasts and osteoclasts, and its implications for osteoporosis, cancer metastases to bone and women's health.  More details are available on the Web page, http://www.feinberg.northwestern.edu/igp/facindex/SternP.html.
1002793	General practice of Adult Psychiatry, with concentration on Mood and Anxiety Disorders. I also have a particular interest in Alzheimers and other dementias.
1002799	Comprehensive care of adults
1002801	I am a general child neurologist with particular interest in neurology of the newborn.  I have research experience in the psychophysics of vision.
1002912	Bioreductive drugs, hypoxia, adjuvant therapy, radiosensitization, metalloproteinase-inhibitors, imaging for hypoxia, 19F-MRS, spermidine-derivatives,<br/>drug activation.
1002979	POSTTRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER<br/>INTERACTIVE DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY, CHILD DEVELOPMENT, FAMILY LIFE, VIDEO GAMES, INTERNET, CELL PHONES, COMPUTER 
1003038	public psychiatry, behavioral health & human service systems, public health, public policy
1003070	Chronic renal failure, Hypertension
1003094	Breast Surgical Oncology
1003171	Laura A Miller is a prosthetist at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago and an Assistant Professor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at Northwestern University, participating in research through the Neural Engineering Center for Artificial Limbs (NECAL). She completed her MS and PhD in Biomedical Engineering at Northwestern University.  She has multiple publications in the area of normal gait and lower limb prosthetics.  She also has an interest in and has been an author in the area of high-level upper limb prosthetic fittings. Laura is an ABC and Illinois licensed prosthetist and a member of the AAOP and the ISPO.   
1003176	Regulation of the cardiac L-type calcium channel at the molecular level
1003231	Exploration of the clinical and epidemiologic significnce of the I1307K APC mutation associated with colorectal cancer in Ashkenazi Jews.
1003231	clinical significance of the I1307k APC mutation in colorectal carcinoma; aromatase inhibitors breast cancer
1003275	Management of chronic pain (low back, neuropathic, cancer, myofascial).<br/>Management of acute postoperative pain.<br/>Regional anesthesia.<br/>Outcome measures in pain research.<br/>Safety and neuraxial and regional anesthesia (e.g. anticoagulation and regional anesthesia)
1003295	Dr. Molitch performs clinical research in the fields of pituitary hormone regulation, pathogenesis and treatment of pituitary tumors, and diabetes complications. His research is conducted primarily in the Clinical Research Center.
1003295	Pathogenesis & treatment of pituitary tumors, treatment of diabetic complications 
1003302	Ambulatory anesthesia, Neurosurgical anesthesia
1003356	I am interested in discovering novel targets for the diagnosis and treatment of heart failure. My clinical training is in cardiology and my research training is in stem cell therapies for cardiovascular diseases, angiogenesis, and vascular biology.
1003361	Neuropsychology
1003403	Oral Pathology <BR><br/>Diagnostic Oral & Maxillofacial Pathology
1003414	The body of work explores early detection of melanoma by skin self-examination (SSE) by those at risk to develop a melanoma. A research focus is the role of the dyadic relationship in performance of SSE. This research evolved from qualitative research in focus group testing of rulers and magnifying glasses to assist with SSE to a randomized trial of the educational and skills training intervention with qualitative measures by self-reported surveys and diaries.<br/>In order to improve the early detection of melanoma by physicians providing care, Dr. Robinson's research seeks to move beyond the usual didactic lectures with skin simulation models. The current model with multiple pigmented lesions affords medical students and primary care resident trainees the opportunity to learn the skills needed for early detection of melanoma. Simulation training modules build self?confidence as the students and trainees master the skills of early detection of melanoma, counseling the patient, and performing a skin biopsy of a clinically suspicious pigmented lesion. The skin simulation interactive learning will enhance the reliability of healthcare provided by primary care physicians via opportunistic screening.<br/>Dr. Robinson's research interest over the last decade has also included prevention of skin cancer by harm reduction messages and educational interventions with teens and young adults with a particular focus on reducing indoor tanning and sun protection.
1003426	Neisseria gonorrhoeae, gonorrhea, pilus, antigenic variation, DNA transformation, DNA replication, DNA repair, antioxidant functions, neutrophil interactions. epithelium interactions
1003444	The laboratory is interested in understanding the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis and immunoregulation of T cell-mediated autoimmune diseases and rejection of tissue and organ transplants.  In particular, we are studying the therapeutic use of specific immune tolerance for the treatment of animal models of multiple sclerosis and type 1 diabetes, as well as using tolerance for specific prevention of rejection of allogeneic and xenogeneic tissue and organ transplants.
1003466	Clinical trials/ Women's health iniative. 
1003502	Expertise in care of children with a variety of cancers, especially pediatric leukemia, palliative care and hemophagocytic syndrome<br/>Expertise in palliative care and pain management<br/>Expertise in clinical bioethics
1003627	Research Interests: Treatment Outcome, Serious Mental Illness<br/>Clinical Interests: Depression, Anxiety, Relationship Issues
1003628	Sinus problems, trans nasal resection of skull base tumors, snoring and sleep apnea, Taste and smell disorders
1003634	Diabetes in pregnancy, High risk pregnancies
1003653	Signal transduction, proteomics, systems biology, neurodegenerative disease, vascular disease
1003694	Dr. Young's research focuses on the sympathetic nervous system and the adrenal medulla. His laboratory is investigating the impact of environmental exposures during fetal and neonatal life on sympathoadrenal development. The hypothesis being tested is that development events 'program' how the sympathoadrenal system functions throughout life. Recently, the laboratory has begun to explore the role of estrogens in both male and female animals in this programming process. The implications of such changes during early development on the phenotypic expression of obesity and hypertension in adults are also under examination.
1003731	Breast cancer surgery
1003772	SOFT TISSUE AND BONE PATHOLOGY
1003787	Breast cancer, General oncology
1003800	Dr. Chang is a rheumatologist with more than 20 years of clinical experience.  His major clinical interest is in rehabilitative rheumatology, and he is regarded as an expert in this field.  He is the Director of the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago Arthritis Center and Immediate Past Chair of the Rehabilitation Section of the American College of Rheumatology.  He is co-author of the rehabilitation chapter in Koopman's and Moreland's textbook, Arthritis and Allied Conditions, one of the major international rheumatology textbooks. <br/>Dr. Chang has been the Director of the Northwestern University Master of Public Health Program since its reorganization in 1996.   During this time he has led the program to achieve pre-accreditation by the Council on Education for Public Health in 2000 and full accreditation from CEPH in 2003.  The program focuses on public health education for medical students and health professionals and trains its students to become effective boundary-spanners between the fields of medicine and public health, an appropriate description of Dr. Chang's professional career.  In September, 2005, Dr. Chang was appointed Acting Chair of the Department of Preventive Medicine.  <br/>Dr. Chang is noted for his clinical epidemiologic/health services research focused on the outcomes of rehabilitation and orthopaedic surgical treatments for persons with arthritis and the determinants of functional limitation in clinical and community populations with arthritis.  Much of his community population work has been done in collaboration with Dorothy Dunlop, PhD and Larry Manheim, PhD.  He also has experience performing decision analysis and cost-effective analysis in collaboration with Dr. Manheim and Gordon Hazen, PhD.  With several research and clinical colleagues, Dr. Chang is currently developing and testing a physical activity promotion program for patients with arthritis.  Dr. Chang's public health oriented research, reflective of his formal public health training and interests, has also led to his prominence in the arthritis public health community both at the state and national level.  As a volunteer for the Arthritis Foundation as well as a representative of the Northwestern University Multidisciplinary Clinical Research Center in Rheumatology and the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago's Arthritis Center, Dr. Chang is a major contributor to the new state-based arthritis prevention program based in the Illinois Department of Public Health.  He is an active volunteer for the Arthritis Foundation, where he is a Co-Chair of the National Office's Public Health Council and the immediate past Chair of the Foundation's Greater Chicago Chapter.
1003800	Dr. Chang is noted for his clinical epidemiologic/health services research focused on the outcomes of rehabilitation and orthopaedic surgical treatments for persons with arthritis and the determinants of functional limitation in clinical and community populations with arthritis.  Much of his community population work has been done in collaboration with Dorothy Dunlop, PhD and Larry Manheim, PhD.  He also has experience performing decision analysis and cost-effective analysis in collaboration with Dr. Manheim and Gordon Hazen, PhD.  With several research and clinical colleagues, Dr. Chang developed and is currently testing a physical activity promotion program for patients with arthritis, supported by a five-year investigator-initiated grant funded by the National Institutes of Health.
1003810	prostate cancer, androgen-response genes, growth control
1003837	The PI has three major areas of hypothesis-driven research hat are studied and supported:  urinary proteomics in genetic kidney stone diseases; genetic and environmental influences on vitamin D metabolism, osteoporosis, and cardio-renal diseases; mechanisms of vasculopathy in chronic kidney diseases.
1003863	Chrinic fatigue symdrome and chlamydia and adolescentimmunizations ,especially flu
1003874	Dr. Lowe's research focuses on various aspects of growth factors and metabolism.  He has a long-standing interest in the insulin-like growth factors and has recently investigated the role of the insulin-like growth factors in pancreatic islet cell biology, especially in the context of islet cell transplantation.  Other research interests include the generation of insulin-secreting cells from embryonic stem cells and the genetics of complex diseases.
1003874	The Lowe lab has two areas of research interest.  One area of study is the genetics of maternal glycemia during pregnancy and fetal growth and their interaction.  A cohort of ~13,000 mothers and their babies are being used in genome wide association and related studies to define genetic variation affecting these traits.  A second area of study is the development of bioactive materials to enhance islet transplantation.  These studies are being conducted in the context of a research team that includes islet biologists, bioengineers and transplant surgeons.  In related studies, the mechanisms for islet expansion during pregnancy are being examined to define mechanisms for islet cell expansion.
1003883	I am interested in how neural networks control posture and balance.
1003916	Hepatic disease, Hepatitis B and C, Viral infections
1003916	Steven L. Flamm, MD is a Professor of Medicine in the Division of Hepatology at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago, Illinois.  He also serves as the Medical Director of Liver Transplantation.<br/>Dr. Flamm is a member of the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) and the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD).  He has served as the Region 7 Representative to the UNOS Liver and Intestine Committee and on the Publication and Practice Guidelines Committees of the AALSD.<br/>Dr. Flamm has published widely in the field of hepatic diseases and has spoken both nationally and internationally on many other liver-related topics including viral Hepatitis, autoimmune hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, and liver transplantation.  He has an active clinical research program in chronic viral hepatitis (HBV and HCV) and autoimmune hepatitis.
1003933	Independent work in Pharmacovigilance;  Post-Marketing Safety Surveillance of Drugs and Medical Devices
1003978	Dr. Chmiel?s current research interests are in the epidemiology of HIV-1 infection, statistical methods for the design and analysis of clinical and epidemiological studies of cancer, osteoarthritis and AIDS, and clinical trial design and analysis.
1004010	Benign Hematology, Clotting, Phlebitis
1004010	Co-investigator in the MultiEthnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) and Walking and Leg Circulation Study (WALCS)<br/>Laboratory evaluation of hemostasis and thrombosis in various clinical models
1004023	A Phase II, Randomized, Parallel-Group, Open-Label, Multicenter Study to Evaluate the Effects of Rituximab on Immune Responses in Subjects with Active Rheumatoid Arthritis<br/>Receiving Background Methotrexate (Protocol# U3374g), Genentech, Inc.
1004023	A Randomized, Placebo Controlled, Double-Blind,<br/>Parallel Group, International Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of<br/>Rituximab (MabThera /Rituxan) in Combination with Methotrexate, Compared to<br/>Methotrexate Monotherapy, in Patients with Active Rheumatoid Arthritis (Protocol Number U2973G), Genentech, Inc.
1004023	A randomized, multifactorial, double-blind, parallel-group, dose ranging study of the efficacy and safety of Rituximab (mab Thera R/Rituxan) in combination with methotrexate in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. Sponsored by Roche Products Ltd,/Genetech, Inc.
1004023	A randomized, phase 3, controlled, double-blind, parallel-group, multicenter study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of rituximab in combination with methotrexate (MTX) compared to MTX alone, in methotrexate-naive patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. (Protocol WA17047/U3373g), Genentech, Inc.
1004023	An Open-label Study of the Efficacy and Safety of Re- Treatment with Rituximab (MabThera/Rituxan) in patients with Active Rheumatoid Arthritis (Protocol WA 16855/U2653g). Roche Products Ltd,/Genetech, Inc..
1004023	Humira Efficacy Response Optimization Study in Subjects with Active Rheumatoid Arthritis (HERO). Abbott Laboratories M04-684,
1004025	I am a board certified Otolaryngologist, with subspecialty certification in Neurotology.  I completed a fellowship in Otology and Neurotology, which is a subspecialty in Otolaryngology that deals with disorders and surgery of the ear and ear related skull base structures.  My interests are in cochlear implants, cochlear implant research, middle ear implants, diseases of ear, skull base surgery, skull base tumors, Gamma Knife surgery, acoustic neuromas, neurofibromatosis type II, otosclerosis and facial nerve disorers.
1004037	Early phase cancer studies, diagnostic and screening studies, study design and smaple size determination, statistical analysis
1004062	I maintain a generalist psychotherapy practice, seeing patients with anxiety, depression, life transition, stress, and relationship problems.  I maintain an ongoing interest in substance use disorders.
1004070	Cardiovascular anesthesia, Thoracic anesthesia, Transplantation anesthesia, Pharmacokinetics of inhaled anesthetics
1004121	I am both a general and a child/adolescent psychiatrist.  I am interested in treating mood disorders in children and adults, especially bipolar disorder.  I emphasize medication management coupled with psychotherapy.  I also treat ADHD; it has a high frequency as a comorbidity with mood disorders.  
1004130	Application of technology within public mental health services systems to facilitate system planning, improve service accessibility and utilization, and monitoring of outcomes; as well as child welfare policy and administration.  
1004250	Epidemiology of gestational diabetes, relationship between blood glucose during pregnancy and various outcomes, including pediatric obesity.
1004289	     1.  2003-2004   Principal Investigator: A 52 week randomized, double-blinded, single dummy, parallel group, multi-center, Phase III study comparing the long-term safety of Symbicort pMBI 160/4.5 x 4 actuations twice daily to Symbicort pMDI 160/4.5 x 2 actuations twice daily, and Budesonide HFA pMDI 160 x 4 actuations twice daily, in adult and adolescent subjects with asthma.<br/>     ......2. 2001-2003  Principal Investigator:  A multi-center, randomized, double-blinded, double-dummy, parallel group, 16-week comparison of Asthma control in adolescents and adults receiving either Fluticasone/Salmeterol Discus combination, Fluticasone Discus, Salmeterol Discus or oral Montelukast.<br/>     .......3. 2001-2002  Principal Investigator:  An open label extension study of Omalizamab in Moderate to Severe , Persistent Asthma subjects who completed Study ALTO<br/>     .......4. 2000-2001  Principal Investigator:  A multi-center, randomized, controlled, open-label study to evaluate the safety of Omalizumab (monoclonal anti-IgE) in Moderate to Severe, Persistent Asthma subjects already treated with other therapies.<br/>     ...........5. 2000  Principal Investigator:  An observational study of the epidemiology and natural history of Asthma: outcomes and treatment regimens.<br/>     ......6. 2000  Principal Investigator:  A randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, multi-center study of the efficacy and safety of Cetirizine-Sudafed vs. Loratadine-sudafed vs placebo in the treatment of Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis.<br/>     .........7. 1998  Principal Investigator:  A randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, multi-center study of the efficacy, safety, and effect on quality of life, work productivity and activity impairment of Cetirizine vs. placebo in the treatment of Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis<br/>     ......8. 1998  Principal Investigator:  A multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of HFA Flunisolide vs. CFC flunisolide in Pediatric patients with Mild to Moderate Asthma.
1004322	Benign hema, Blood coagulation
1004324	Effective psychological treatment today requires a flexibility of approach as well as the ability to ask the right psychological questions. By engaging patients quickly and thoroughly assessing clinical needs and resources, I am able to work with the patient in order to develop the proper mix of problem-focused interventions and more traditional psychotherapy. Each patient's problems and strengths must be evaluated on an individual basis. I view psychotherapy as a collaborative proceess in which the patient(s) and I work together in order to understand how current situations and past influences impact the well-being of the patient's current life and future goals. In addition to using a flexible approach to treatment, when appropriate, I communicate clearly with other professionals involved in treating the patient, couple, or family. I work with adults as individuals, couples, or parents, and with adolescents and families. Having trained in both clinical and developmental psychology gives me a unique life-span perspective in both normal and pathological psychological processes. 
1004331	Comorbid psychiatric disorders, Trauma and loss, Mental health needs, substance use and risky behaviors of offenders, HIV/AIDS/STIs, Criminalization of mentally ill
1004333	Primary care internal medicine, Women's healthcare
1004356	I am interested in identifying why learning becomes progressively more difficult with normal aging. With this broad goal in mind, I am studying the cellular properties of principle neurons of the hippocampus as an animal ages and after an animal has learned a task that involve the hippocampus. Thus far, my colleagues and I have identified that hippocampal pyramidal neurons (the principle output neurons of the hippocampus) become more excitable (that is, they are able to fire more action potentials) following successful learning. More importantly, the same population of neurons become less excitable with normal aging. Thus, it is our working hypothesis that the reduced excitability levels of the hippocampal pyramidal neurons with normal aging is a cause of the learning deficits observed in the aging population. We are currently using state of the art calcium imaging techniques to further characterize the changes in the hippocampal pyramidal neurons following learning and with normal aging. By systematically examining these cellular changes that occur following successful learning and with normal aging, a goal is to identify potential pharmacological targets to ameliorate and/or reverse the normal aging-related cognitive deficits. In addition, given that incidence of Alzheimer's disease increases with age, it is another goal of our research to translate our findings and approach to identify the cellular changes that occur in this debilitating condition.
1004377	My current clinical research interests include critical care medicine with a focus on the neurologically injured patient population.  However, as Medical Director of the Northwestern Memorial Hospital Emergency Response Team, I am also interested in the systems analyses of in-hospital resuscitation teams which are being described and investigated using an IRB approved research database.  Additionally, as Clerkship Co-Director of the NUFSM ICU M4 Clerkship, I have begun work on investigating the use of patient simulation in undergraduate medical education as an educational adjunct.
1004379	Carework, caring in long-term care, direct care workers, long-term care
1004379	Dr. Berdes, a sociologist, does research in the field of long-term care. She is involved in the study of person-centered care, particularly in the nature of caring relationships between people living in residential care and their paid caregivers.
1004381	I have focused my research and clinical career on the field of Pediatric HIV/AIDS, where I serve as Associate Director of the Section of Pediatric, Adolescent and Maternal HIV Infection at the Children's Memorial Hospital. As a member of the NIH-funded International Maternal Pediatric Adolescent AIDS Clinical Trial (IMPAACT) network, I am chairperson of domestic and international protocols investigating the pharmacokinetics, pharmacogenomics and efficacy of new antiretroviral agents and approaches to therapy for HIV-infected infants. In response to the growth of Pediatric AIDS in international settings, I have traveled to several African nations to train physicians about prevention of mother to child transmission of HIV and the scale-up of antiretroviral therapy for HIV-infected children. As Associate Chair for Education, I oversee the education mission for the Department of Pediatrics.
1004570	Atopic dermatitis, blistering skin disease, basement membrane, animal model, cytokine, chemokine, autoimmunity, autoantibody, autoantigen, immunogenetic
1004642	The research in the Ferreira lab is focused on the mechanisms underlying neurite degeneration and synapse loss in neurodegenerative diseases
1004676	Neuroimmunology, demyelinating disease
1004707	Dr. Levenson's laboratory concentrates on understanding the molecular mechanisms of development and progression of prostate cancer bone metastases. Her research focuses on understanding epigenic mechanisms of anticancer effects of the dietary compound resveratrol (found in red wine), and on exploring chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic potential of resveratrol in prostate cancer.
1004817	Dr. Lee's research interests include prostate biology, prostate cancer, cell differentiation, growth factor signaling, apoptosis, gene therapy, cell-cell interaction, TGF-beta, and benign prostate growth.
1004883	Dr. Jameson's research focuses on molecular endocrinology. His laboratory investigates fundamental mechanisms that control the transcription of endocrine genes. Concerted efforts are made to bridge laboratory studies with clinical endocrinology using recombinant DNA methods to investigate the pathophysiology of endocrine disorders.
1004883	Nuclear receptors, SF-1, Dax-1, Gonadal development, Transgenic mice, Reproduction, Thyroid
1004892	Care of patients with HIV infection, Primary care internal medicine
1004893	Dr. Kiang Liu received his BS degree in mathematics from Fu-Jen University, Taiwan, in 1970 and his PhD degree in statistics from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, in 1976. That year, he joined Northwestern University Medical School as a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Community Health and Preventive Medicine's training program in cardiovascular epidemiology sponsored by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI). Following his post-doctoral training (1979), he received a research career development award from the NHLBI and became an assistant professor in the department. From 1983 to 1988 he was an associate professor and beginning in 1988 he has been a professor in the Department of Preventive Medicine.<br/>Dr. Liu's research interests are in cardiovascular epidemiology and statistical methodology for epidemiologic research. He has authored or co-authored more than 270 papers or book chapters on these topics. He is the Principal Investigator of the CARDIA Chicago Field Center, an NHLBI-funded longitudinal collaborative study on lifestyle and evolution of cardiovascular risk factors in young adults and Principal Investigator of the MESA Chicago Field Center, an NHLBI-funded longitudinal study on factors related to subclinical cardiovascular disease. He is also the Principal Investigator of the MESA Family Study. 
1004916	Flow Cytometry   Immunology<BR><BR><br/>Diagnostic Test Development, Functional Flow Cytometry Test Development, Pediatric Immune Deficiency, Immune Regulation in Autoimmune disease
1005031	proteinase regulation, extracellular matrix proteolysis, adhesion molecules, ovarian cancer, oral squamous cell carcinoma, matrix metalloproteinases, plasminogen activators
1005100	Research in the Longnecker laboratory focuses on herpes simplex virus (HSV) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV).  These viruses typically cause self-limiting disease within the human population but both can be associated with serious complications. EBV is associated with variety of hematopoietic cancers such as African Burkitt's lymphoma, Hodgkin's and adult T-cell leukemia.  EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disease occurs in individuals with congenital or acquired cellular immune deficiencies.  The two notable epithelial diseases associated with EBV infection are nasopharyngeal cancer and oral hairy leukoplakia.  Similar to EBV, HSV latent infections are very common in humans.  HSV typically does not cause severe disease but is associated with localized mucocutaneous lesions, but in some cases can cause meningitis and encephalitis. The Longnecker laboratory focuses on several aspects of EBV and HSV replication and pathogenesis.  First, the molecular basis EBV transformation and how it relates to cancer is being investigated. The laboratory is currently screening selective inhibitors that may be beneficial in EBV-associated cancers such as Hodgkin's lymphoma and proliferative disorders that occur in HIV/AIDS and transplant patients.  Second, the laboratory is investigating herpesvirus latency in human host.  In this regard, the laboratory is developing animal models for EBV latent infections. Finally, the laboratory is investigating the function of herpesvirus encoded proteins that are important in for infection and the interactions required with cellular receptors required for pathogenesis. Ultimately, studies by the Longnecker may provide insight for the development of novel therapeutics for the treatment of herpesvirus infections in humans and better understanding of the herpesvirus life cycle in the human host.
1005132	depression, psychiatry, affective disorders, treatment, experimental models, circadian rhythms
1005141	Clinical expertise: pain management. Populations include Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (also known as RSD), Fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain, pain in older patients, pain in rehabilitation diagnoses, Myofascial Pain Syndrome and headache.<br/>Research: primarily focused on the study of Post Amputation Pain, Spinal Cord Injury pain, Complex Regional Pain Syndromes, musculoskeletal pain, neuropathic pain, osteoarthritis and headaches. The Center for Pain Studies under his direction conducts pharmacological trials, outcomes development and validation and Model validation.
1005197	CLINICAL INTERESTS: Neuropsychological evaluation of adults including effects of subtance use and ADHD. Psychological evaluation of adults including psychotic, mood, and anxiety disorders.
1005219	Organization, financing of health care, health law, child health
1005227	Vestibular, Oculomotor, Vision, Otoliths, Neurophysiology, Neuroanatomy, Behavior, Electromyography
1005231	Gastrointestinal Disease and Surgery; Gallbladder Disorders, Hernia, Minimally Invasive Techniques, Skin Lesions
1005232	My current research interests include the administration of Substance P to improve allergen immunotherapy, the role of staphylococcal enterotoxins in the immunopathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis, TLR signaling in food allergy, and health disparities in asthma outcomes.<br/>Other research interests on which I have previously published include allergen immunotherapy, drug hypersensitvity, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, occupational asthma, and asthma in the disadvantaged elderly.
1005232	modification of allergen immunotherapy; immunopathogenesis of allergic diseases including asthma, rhinosinusitis & drug hypersensitivity; asthma disparities; asthma in the elderly; asthma & obesity
1005233	Full time Associate Director of the Integrated Graduate Program in the Life Sciences, the umbrella PhD program for the Feinberg School of Medicine at Northwestern University.
1005250	Regulation of gene expression, especially functions and mechanisms of cis-acting elements; role of histone modifications in transcriptional regulation; functions of transcription factors; interactions between cis-acting elements, transcription factors and epigenetic changes
1005265	Our research aims to elucidate the mechanisms by which chronic activation of glia in the brain, especially astrocytes and microglia, leads to damage of the neurons and progressive neurodegeneration in diseases like Alzheimer's disease. The overall goal is to utilize knowledge of potentially 'druggable' pathways to develop new therapeutics. The normal role of the glia is to cooperate with the neurons to keep the brain operating smoothly. When an injury or change in the brain occurs, the glia mount an inflammation response to fight off the insult and restore the brain to its proper functioning. But in neurodegenerative diseases, the glia are over-activated, producing a state called neuroinflammation. Neuroinflammation can lead to nerve cell dysfunction or death, which is manifest as dementia. Although neuroinflammation appears to play a pivotal role in the development and progression of neurodegeneration, the molecular mechanisms underlying the process and approaches to downregulate the neuroinflammation have received little attention.
1005304	The elucidation of eukaryotic signal transduction pathways, the study of signal transduction pathway perturbation in disease or injury, and the utilization of this knowledgebase for rational drug discovery and development.
1005318	herpesviruses, viral entry, cell fusion
1005327	Treatment of arrhythmias in patients with repaired congenital heart disease, including adults. Surgical therapy of arrhythmias. Evaluation of autonomic dysfunction disorders in adolescents. Evaluation of patients with a family history of sudden cardiac death. Long QT syndrome.
1005411	Epidemiology of HIV infection<br/>Treatment of HIV infection
1005415	Sports Medicine
1005437	Clinical Interest: <br/>Kawasaki Disease, Pediatric Infections, Infective Endocarditis, Rheumatic Fever, Group A Strep Infections, History of Medicine<br/>Research Interest:<br/>Dr. Shulman?s research interest focuses on the epidemiology and antibiotic resistance of Group A streptococci and streptococcal and post-streptococcal illnesses. He is also involved in several aspects of Kawasaki Disease, including studies relating to the etiology, pathogenesis, and treatment of this disease. As chairman of the Infection Prevention and Control Committee, his interests also involve the areas of hospital and community epidemiology of pediatric infectious diseases and nosocomial infections. He is also interested in the history of medicine, particularly as relates to pediatrics and infectious diseases.
1005472	Abnormal PAP smears, Gynecologic surgery, Pelvic relaxation
1005483	Adolescent gynecology, General obstetrics and gynecology, Pediatric gynecology
1005622	Addictions psychiatry, Forensic psychiatry
1005723	Critical care medicine, Phrenic nerve pacers
1005724	Primary Care, Clinical Director, Resident and Medical Student Education
1005807	Primary current concentration is in pediatric cardiology and echocardiography of congenital heart disease.  Interests also include telemedicine, outcomes research, epidemiology of congenital heart disease and medical education.
1005814	Diagnostic immunology, Renal pathology, Urologic cancers
1005815	Asthma, COPD
1005849	papillomaviruses, cervical cancer, epithelila cells, diffrentiation
1005925	Cataract surgery, Comprehensive ophthalmology
1005930	Gastrointestinal cancers, Breast cancer, Lung/thoracic oncology, Gynecologic Oncology, Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT), Sarcomas
1005937	Surgical Pathology
1005994	Breast pathology, General surgical pathology
1006032	Bench: Gangliosides, keratinocytes, signaling; Clinical: Genetics, immune skin, atopic dermatitis
1006034	Stroke, Arm Dysfunction following stroke, Electrical Stimulation, Fitness following Stroke
1006055	1.  Clinical interests: <br/>? interstitial lung disease<br/>? copd / asthma<br/>? dyspnea<br/>? drug-induced lung disease
2.  Research interests<br/>? Mechanism of alveolar epithelial cell injury: role of iron-derived free radicals, the mitochondria, p53 and DNA damage<br/>? Asbestos and airborne particulate matter
1006058	Dr. Greenland's research, teaching and clinical interests focus on the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. He has authored or co-authored over 250 research papers, book chapters, and monographs on topics related to heart disease prevention, heart disease in women, and other aspects of heart disease. Dr. Greenland's current research involves heart diseases in women, risk factors for cardiovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease epidemiology, prediction of CVD, and nutritional aspects of high blood pressure. <br/>Dr. Greenland was also Principal Investigator (PI) for several NIH-funded training programs including the Northwestern University Mentored Clinical Scholars Program (K12), and the Post-doctoral Training Program (T32) in Cardiovascular Disease Epidemiology and Prevention. He is currently PI for Northwestern's CTSA program.
1006058	My research, teaching and clinical interests all focus on the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. My current collaborative research focuses on women's health, heart diseases in women, risk factors for cardiovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease epidemiology, and nutritional aspects of high blood pressure. <br/>I am Principal Investigator for the NIH-funded 'CV and non-CV Risks in Four Cohorts.'I am also Principal Investigator of several NIH-funded training programs including the Clinical Research Curriculum Award (K-30), the Mentored Clinical Scholars Program (K-12), and the Post-doctoral Training Program (T32) in Cardiovascular Disease Epidemiology and Prevention.
1006210	the role of nutrition in prevention and public health
1006247	Clinical Neurology with an emphasis on peripheral nerve disorders.
1006275	Blood banking, Transfusion medicine<BR><BR><br/>We have published works in a broad range of areas in blood banking and immunohematology, with focus on the challenging transfusion problems of organ transplantation, and in particular, liver transplants. Our transfusion service has a strong emphasis on the quality improvement of laboratory testing and clinical support. We have implemented innovative systems for monitoring blood component usage, managing blood component recalls, and preventing ABO errors in organ transplants. Recently we were the first hospital in the US to install a newly approved system for full automation of pretransfusion testing. Through various committees in recent years, we have contributed to national forums for blood banking policies, accreditation, and disaster planning.
1006301	Chronic pain syndromes, Stereotactic radiosurgery, Tumors of the brain and spine
1006308	My primary research interest involves understanding the mechanisms by which extracellular matrix influences the behavior of keratinocytes and lung cells.
1006346	Inflammatory arthritis, General rheumatology, Regional musculoskeletal disorders
1006385	Dr. Zelko has conducted research on neurocognitive functioning with a number of pediatric populations including epilepsy, lupus, kidney disease, liver disease, and spina bifida, and has a number of publications and scientific presentations.  He is presently participating in multi-site studies of the cognitive sequalue of sickle cell disease, pediatric lupus, childhood absence epilepsy, chronic kidney disease, liver transplant, peditric cancer, and phenylketonuria.  His primary focus at present is upon pediatric epilepsy, with a particular emphasis upon attention and executive skills deficits. 
1006470	Dr. Ford-Paz is the Coordinating Psychologist of the Mood & Anxiety Program at Children's Memorial Hospital and provides evidence-based evaluation and individual, family, and group cognitive behavioral therapy in Spanish and English for a variety of anxiety and depressive disorders.  Dr. Ford-Paz also has clinical and research interests in the reduction of mental health disparities for Latino youth and families. More specifically, she is interested in the cultural adaptation of evidence-based treatment to improve treatment retention and outcomes for Latino youth. Currently, she is involved in community-based participatory research with 3 agency partners: Healthcare Alternative Systems, Alternatives, Inc., and Alivio Medical Center to target the prevention of depression in Latino youth.
1006495	I am interested in the development of teaching resources for undergraduate medical education.  I have authored an embryology book and co-authored an imaging book, created two websites for imaging and radiologic anatomy, a website of electron micrographs, and converted the M1 histology laboratories from the use of microscopes to the study of digital slides.
1006593	Abdominal wall reconstruction, hernia repair, breast reconstruction, hand surgery, treatment of hand ischemia, peripheral nerve surgery, surgery for amputees, reconstructive microsurgery
1006601	Quantitative MR strategies for deriving measurements of neurological status in vivo.  Risk factors and Biomarkers of neurological progression in HIV infection and in CNS disorders.  Quantitative imaging measurements of the bone marrow and relationship to brain injury/cognitive decline.  Cytokines/Chemokines, particularly MCP-1, and relevance to neurological status.
1006641	I am a member of a group of investigators under the leadership of Leema Sharma, MD and funded by the National Institutes of Health to study mechanical influences on the progression of knee osteoarthritis. 
1006773	1. Severe Asthma-We are investigating the associated conditions and immunologic mechanisms of excessive loss of lung function in patients wtih 'irreversible asthma'-a condition first described here. 
2. Drug Allergy-We are continuing our series of penicillin testing and protocol development for patients allergic to newer agents including immunomodulatory therapies. 
3. Allergic Bronchopulmonary Aspergillosis-Our series of patients is over 25; we are testing the notion that impaired responses by the innate immune defenses allow for Aspergillus fumigatus to escape containment and grow in the bronchial mucus. We continue to explore the utility of recombinant Aspergillus fumigatus allergens for diagnostic testing.
4. Reduction in allergic antibody in human allergic subjects- we are testing the notion that the combination of the neuropeptide, Substance P with low dose allergen administration can decrease the immediate cutaneous and clinical reactivity. The initial results of 8 allergic rhinitis subjects have been published. There is an active IND with the FDA, and we are enrolling more subjects for the controlled study and investigation into the mechanisms involved. 
1006773	Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, Anaphylaxis, Drug allergy, Severe asthma, Urticaria. Suppression of allergic antibodies in human subjects.
1006778	Addictions psychiatry, General adult psychiatry, Mood Disorders, Psychopharmacology
1006781	Family and Cosmetic Dentistry including veneers, crowns, implants, dentures, root canal, TMJ disorders, periodontal (gum) diseases, dentistry with sedation, sleep apnea , upper airway resistance syndrome, snoring
1006815	The three fundamental goals of my research are the following: 1) To understand the nature of the brain's own signals -- the 'language' in which movement commands are expressed by neurons in the central nervous system. 2) To understand the mechanisms by which these signals are produced -- the nature of the connections among networks of neurons, and the transformations that occur in the signals as they propagate throughout these networks. 3) To develop applications of these basic principles that could be of therapeutic value to human patients. Much of this work is done in collaboration with students and faculty from the Biomedical Engineering Department and the Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program (NUIN).
1006832	Injury epidemiology, injury prevention
1006854	Patientsafety/medical error, Iatrogenesis
1006854	Research Interests include funding and delivery of health care and health disparities.
1006865	Neurobiology of the mammalian spinal cord
1006981	Dr. Schaeffer's clinical and research interests involve urinary tract infections, prostatitis, and chronic pelvic pain syndrome.
1007010	I practice primary care sports medicine, a newer field geared towards the non-surgical management of muskuloskeletal complaints.  Currently a team physician for the Chicago Bears (NFL) and US Soccer Men's National Team.
1007084	ARDS, Sepsis, Cystic fibrosis, mechanisms of fibrosis in lung disease.
1007084	Director of Adult Cystic Fibrosis Services
1007103	Prevention, detection and treatment of child maltreatment with a special interest in clinical decision making in the office setting.  I am also interested in the influence of childhood adversities on child health.
1007168	Dr. Pachman's translational team studies juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM), an often chronic pediatric systemic vasculopathy associated with skin inflammation and proximal muscle weakness of unknown etiology. Her laboratory has identified genetic and environmental factors that play a role in the onset of symptoms and govern outcome. The TNF-a-308 promoter A polymorphism is associated with prolonged disease course. Increased production of TNF-a protein is associated with the A allele throughout disease course, in contrast to serum levels of IFN-a activity, elevated early in the disease. Gene expression micro array studies of untreated children's diagnostic muscle biopsies identified massive dysregulation of IFN-a induced genes in JDM, similar to anti-viral immune model, which also shared features of the IFN-a signature characteristic of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Epigenetic and miRNA studies of diagnostic muscle biopsies indicate critical differences associated with disease duration. Dr. Pachman?s search for clinically useful biomarkers of immune activation has identified CD3- natural killer cells and von Willebrand factor antigen, released from damaged endothelial cells.  With chronic inflammation, progressive endothelial damage is reflected by loss of nailfold capillary end row loops (they developed a quantitative system of analysis)associated with lack of absorption of oral prednisone.  In addition, her lab maintains a patient-derived sample repository of diagnostic muscle and skin biopsies, sequential sera, peripheral blood lymphocytes, lymphocyte culture supernatant fluid, and dystrophic calcifications samples keyed to a sequential database and an analytical database software and bio-informatics system. <br/>In summary, this intensive research effort broadens the clinical, genetic and immunological characterization of the child with JDM, which is a critical aid in guiding current therapy and may lead to novel targeted interventions.
1007180	Psychotherapy, Psychoanalysis
1007188	General urology, Prostate cancer, Urologic oncology
1007298	Regional Anesthesia in Children<br/>Pain Management in Children
1007337	breast, cancer, tumorigenesis, estrogen, receptor, coactivator, transcription, regulation, knockout, transgenic<br/><BR><BR><br/>To understand the role of nuclear receptor coactivators in regulation of cell specific gene transcriptional activation by estrogen receptor, and how the interruption to this regulation contributes to breast tumorigenesis.
1007375	Addictions psychiatry, Chemical dependence
1007378	Martin McCarthy is a health psychologist and a health services researcher with two main interests -- the use of behavioral and information technologies in health promotion and the assessment of patient-level outcomes of medical care. Dr. McCarthy holds an AB degree in History from Georgetown University, an MA in Experimental Psychology from Columbia University, a PhD in Community Psychology from New York University, and he completed a Post-Doctoral Fellowship in Health Psychology at Northwestern's Feinberg School of Medicine. He is a trained psychotherapist and is licensed to practice as a clinical psychologist in New York State and in Illinois. Previous academic appointments were at the Center for Health Services and Policy Research at Northwestern University, the Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology in the School of Public Health at Columbia University, and the Milhauser Laboratories at New York University Medical Center. Internet-based multimedia interventions have been developed for use in health plans, clinics, school systems, and patients' homes. Projects have focused on reducing children?s experimentation with tobacco products, preventing sexually transmitted diseases in adolescents, promoting skin cancer control in a range of age groups, improving management of risk factors in diabetic patients, promoting the early detection of breast cancer in older women, teaching multimodal pain management to patients with acute and chronic back injuries, and preventing and managing depression in patients with comorbid health problems. Health services research projects focus on the assessment of functional status, health-related quality of life, and psychosocial risk factors via Computerized Adaptive Testing. Previous studies have examined the impact of processes and structures of care on outcomes of cardiac surgery; outcomes of laparascopic and open surgical procedures; and behavioral risk factors in the epidemiology of cardiovascular disease.
1007424	Doctor Spatafora is Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatry at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, and he supervises psychiatry resident trainees at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. He maintains a private psychiatric practice, seeing individuals both for psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy. His sub-specialty training is in Addiction Medicine, and he serves as the Medical Director of the National Football League Program for Substances of Abuse. In his clinical approach, he strives to understand individual patients based both upon science-based knowledge and upon the evidence that emerges within the care of the specific individual.
1007443	Clinical research involving tuberculosis and other HIV-related infections. 
1007508	Abnormal gynecological bleeding, Fibroids, Vaginitis
1007928	Dr. Kaplan specializes in pediatric urology, pediatric neurourology and urodynamics, and pediatric genitourinary reconstruction.
1007950	Medical care of the patient with diabetes, Medical care of the patient with hypertension, Primary care internal medicine
1007979	I maintain an active practice focusing primarily on Cornea and External Eye Disease.  I have a high volume of cornea transplantation patients and am amongst the first in the nation to perform modern endothelial keratoplasty surgery.  I also continue to explore areas of corneal stem cell transplantation and traditional corneal transplantation, infectious disease, and oncology of the ocular surface.
1007992	Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a significant medical condition and current treatment options are ineffective in diabetic patients and in prostate cancer patients treated by prostatectomy.  Sonic hedgehog (SHH) is an essential regulator of penile smooth muscle, cavernous nerve (CN) integrity and CN regeneration that has significant potential to be developed as a treatment to prevent ED by regenerating the CN and by suppressing penile apoptosis.  In our laboratory we examine fundamental mechanisms that underlie cavernous nerve regulation of penile morphology during development, how these mechanisms become altered with peripheral neuropathy of the cavernous nerve in diabetic rats and how manipulation of SHH signaling can be used to speed cavernous nerve repair in diabetic models. 
1008044	Dentin phosphophoryn (DPP), the major noncollagenous protein of tooth dentin matrix is synthesized as dentin sialophosphoprotein (DSPP) by the mesenchyme-derived odontoblasts. We have found a spatio-temporal expression during mouse embryonic development in cells of epithelial origin. At day-13 of embryonic gestation, DPP was localized to the enamel organ at  the developing tooth cap stage, with heaviest immuno-histochemical staining at the oral ectoderm but was also prominent in the inner enamel epithelium. Interestingly, at the same embryonic stage, DPP was also expressed in the ureteric bud branches of the metanephric kidney and in the alveolar epithelial buds of the developing lung. No expression was seen in the mesenchymal component of either organ. Interestingly inclusion of anti-DPP antibodies in E-13 organ cultures of kidneys harvested from wild type mice, altered ureteric bud morphogenesis and caused looseness of the metanephric mesenchyme. These findings suggest that besides its role in mineralization of the dentin, DPP modulates epithelial-mesenchymal interactions in meristic tissues during embryonic development.<br/>Another focus in our laboratory has been studies directed towards understanding the mechanism of mineralization in vertebrate tissues such as bone and tooth and in sea urchin tooth in invertebrates and the role of extracellular constituents of connective tissue in this complex process.  The acidic protein constituent part of extracellular matrix has been implicated in mineral deposition but the precise series of molecular reaction mechanism remains undefined. In invertebrate systems, where the mineral part is calcite or aragonite the mechanisms of molecular calcification remains even much less understood compared to vertebrates where mineral deposition is chiefly calcium hydroxyapatite. We are studying whether it is the nature of the protein or environment that determines whether we get Calcium Carbonate  or Calcium Phosphate crystals
1008164	Breast cancer clinical/translational trials investigating novel chemotherapeutic agents , endocrine therapy and targeted therapy.  These trials are conducted in the advanced and early stage disease setting
1008164	Breast cancer, Sarcoma
1008165	Anxiety disorders, Medical education
1008334	Pediatrics, obesity, practice-based research
1008360	blood coagulation, thrombolysis, cataract, neurodegenerative disease, celiac disease, transglutaminases, cell aging, proteolytic enzymes, apoptosis, terminal differentiation
1008377	As a practicing pediatrician, I spend a great deal of my time educating children and their families about good nutrition and weight management.
1008387	My research and public policy interests include health informatics standards, security, and adoption; public health emergency preparedness and response, communicable disease epidemiology, and public health informatics.
1008443	I am interested in pediatric emergency medicine.  My interests included, medical liability, disaster planning and appendicitis.
1008614	Primary research and clinical interest in female infertility including the impact of infertility on mood and functioning.  Also, psychological aspects of ooycte donation.
1008667	Adult congenital heart disease, Heart disease and pregnancy, Women's cardiovascular health
1008692	General infectious disease, HIV infection
1008881	Diabetes complications of the eye, PDT laser treatment, Vitreo-retinal diseases
1008921	Primary care internal medicine, Women's healthcare, intimate partner violence
1008963	Neurologic communication disorders, aphasia, traumatic brain injury, right hemisphere stroke, discourse, neglect
1008970	The major cause of mortality from prostate cancer is metastatic disease for which there is currently no effective cure.  For reasons that remain incompletely understood, bone is the most common site for prostate cancer metastasis.  Reciprocal signaling between invading prostate cancer cells and host bone stromal cells is central to metastatic tumor development.  Understanding these cell-cell interactions will lead to effective diagnostic and therapeutic strategies to prevent/arrest metastatic spread of prostate carcinoma. My current research stems from the hypothesis that prostate cancer cells and bone cells interact via the hedgehog signaling pathway to promote bone metastasis.  Sonic hedgehog (Shh) is a member of the hedgehog family of ligands that activate an intracellular signaling cascade upon binding to transmembrane receptors (Patched) leading to transcriptional regulation of specific target genes by the Gli family of transcription factors.  Our previous work has demonstrated that Shh-expressing epithelial cells and Gli-expressing mesenchymal cells in embryonic mouse prostate interact via the Shh-Gli pathway to promote cell proliferation and ductal morphogenesis.  We have also shown that the genes for Shh and Gli are expressed in human prostate cancer, and that Shh-expressing prostate cancer cells and Gli-expressing stroma collaborate to promote prostate tumor growth in a mouse xenograft model.  Our present research extends these observations and investigates signaling interactions via the Shh-Gli pathway between prostate cancer cells and bone cells to promote prostate carcinoma metastasis, using both in vitro and in vivo models.
1008991	Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, Dermatopathology, Skin cancer prevention and detection
1009039	cancer, aging, senescence, stress resistance, cell death, life span, aging associated diseases.
1009098	My clinical interests are in long- and short-term, psychodynamically informed psychotherapy with both high-functioning and severely mentally ill adult outpatients, marital/couples therapy and clinical supervision.  My research interests include psychoanalytic theory, gender theory, fantasy, creativity, psychodynamically-informed developmental theory, the relationships between clinical work, psychological theory, and the arts and humanities, psychoanalysis and culture theory, and psychoanalytic politics.
1009110	Investigations of nerve cell behavior in vivo and in vitro; live cell imaging; phototoxicity
1009129	Rheumatoid arthritis
1009168	aging, age-related memory loss, synapses, synapse number, synapse structure
1009325	Cosmetic, Reconstructive breast surgery, Reconstructive surgery
1009340	I am interested in how robotic interactions can be used to improve reaching performance. My methods involve dynamic modeling, optimization, robotics, and adaptive control. Applications include rehabilitation of brain injured individuals. 
1009343	Antimicrobial resistance, Infection of the immunocompromised host, Nosocomial infections
1009343	My research interests have focused primarily on the epidemiology of healthcare associated infections and antimicrobial resistance.  Specifically, this includes investigations into the epidemiology, transmission and management of vancomycin resistant enterococci as well as other multidrug resistant bacteria.  More recently, my focus has expanded to include research into patient safety.  This includes understanding the epidemiology of medication errors and other adverse events associated with hospitalization.
1009346	My main clinical and research interests involve radionuclide imaging and therapy, including but not limited to general Nuclear Medicine imaging and therapy, positron emission tomography (PET) and PET-CT imaging, molecular imaging and Nuclear Cardiology.
1009347	I am Chairman of Panel C of the Institutional Review Board at Northwestern, and CoChair of the combined Northwestern/University of Illnois VA IRB.<br/>I have a private practice with and emphais on Adult Attention Deficit Disorder and Mens Health.
1009475	Bone Health and Osteoporosis<br/>Clinical densitometry
1009475	Dementia, Osteoporosis
1009528	I have a particular interest in anesthesia for ENT surgery and resident education.
1009562	Epidemiologic characteristics and health service needs of special populations, HIV/AIDS risk behaviors, and mental health service utilization
1009564	Chronic mental illness, General adult psychiatry, Schizophrenia
1009628	I am especially interested in anxiety disorders and their link to other health concerns, including cardiovascular risks, autoimmune diseases, and obesity.  I am also interested in an integrated approach to psychiatric problems that encompasses more in depth integration of biopsychosocial aspects.  Finally, I am especially interested in communicating effectively complex ideas related to my profession to medical/professional colleagues in related or other diverse fields and the public at large.  My published essays reflect my ability to reach a diverse audience.
1009779	Dr. Pope directs a basic science laboratory, which is focused on rheumatoid arthritis, a disease that affects women much more commonly than men.  Dr. Pope's laboratory has focused on characterizing the basic mechanisms that contribute to the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis.  The work focuses on the role of macrophages and synovial fibroblasts.  His studies are directed at defining the mechanisms that promote resistance to apoptosis or programmed cell death.  They are aimed at defining the potential role of the induction of apoptosis as a therapeutic approach in this disease.  To this end his laboratory is characterizing the mechanisms that protect rheumatoid arthritis macrophages and synovial fibroblasts from apoptosis.  Investigators in his laboratory identified the upregulation of the anti-apoptotic protein, Flice Like Inhibitory Protein (FLIP), during monocyte to macrophage differentiation.  They have demonstrated that FLIP is highly expressed in the rheumatoid joint and is responsible for protecting rheumatoid arthritis macrophages from Fas-mediated apoptosis.  His laboratory is further characterizing the mechanisms for the basal expression of FLIP, and that observed following activation by cytokines and toll-like receptor ligands.  Further, studies are aimed at defining the mechanisms of macrophage cell death that occurs following TNF or Toll-like receptor ligation when NF-kB activation is suppressed.  The aim of these studies is to identify potential therapeutic targets for intervention in rheumatoid arthritis.  Additional studies are directed at determining the role of Fas-Fas ligand interactions on the promotion of chronic inflammation, which occurs by sensitizing the macrophages to activation through the Toll/IL-1 receptor pathway.  Additional studies have identified Mcl-1, another Bcl-2 family member, which is critical for the survival of macrophages and synovial fibroblasts.  Studies have demonstrated that Mcl-1 is highly expressed in the rheumatoid joint, in both macrophages and synovial fibroblasts.  Ongoing studies are directed at defining the unique mechanisms that control the expression of Mcl-1 in macrophages and synovial fibroblasts.  Both cell types appear critically dependent on Mcl-1 for survival and ongoing studies are aimed at defining the potential role of modulating mcl-1 expression or function as a therapeutic target in experimental models of rheumatoid arthritis.The goal of this program is to develop new therapies, employing apoptosis as a therapeutic tool.  Dr. Pope's laboratory also collaborates with Dr. Ramsey-Goldman, developing and performing some of the assays used to evaluate osteoporosis in her patients with lupus.  These include assays to quantitative osteoprotegerin and Rank ligand as well as microarray analysis of monocytes and macrophages from patients with lupus.  
1009779	Rheumatoid Arthritis, Macrophage, Apoptosis, Cytokine, Gene Regulation
1009999	Extensive experience in Cleft Lip and Palate and Craniofacial Surgery.<br/>Director: Head Shape Evaluation Program<br/>This is a multispecialty clinic dedicated to the evaluation and treatment of children with congenital and acquired deformities of the craniofacial skeleton.
1010008	Research Interests: Organizational behavior, translational research/implementation of evidence into clinical practice, long-term care and utilization of health care services, including community care, assisted living and nursing home care. Spinal cord injury - variability in proactive, self-management, prevention of pressure ulcers.
1010177	genomics, genome, genome structure, genome annotation, transcriptome, SAGE, gene identification
1010207	prosthetics, orthotics, rehabilitation engineering
1010213	My primary clinical and research interests include Neuro-ophthalmologic problems such as double vision, optic nerve problems and vision problems related to neurologic or neurosurgical problems such as tumors, trauma and strokes.  My surgical interests include refractive procedures; such as LASIK and PRK, cataract surgery; including presbyopia (reading) corrective intraocular implants and eye muscle surgery; for patients with double vision or strabismus (abnormal eye alignment).
1010235	diet, nutrition, prevention, treatment, cardiovascular epidemiology, breast cancer, child health, obesity prevention, obesity treatment, maternal nutrition
1010236	Acute myocardial infarction, Angioplasty, Coronary disease, Interventional cardiology, Rotablator, Stents
1010263	Contributed a large body of work to the literature addressing the diagnosis, biology, and treatment of acute leukemia and other hematologic malignancies.  This work includes original research articles in peer-reviewed journals, textbook chapters and reviews, monographs, editorials and abstracts.  He has spoken as an invited lecturer and chair at many national and international symposia, conferences, and meetings, including the American Society of Hematology and American Society of Clinical Oncology Annual Meetings.   
1010263	Hodgkin's disease, Leukemia, Lymphoma, Transplantation
1010271	Psychological reactions and coping with medical problems;<br/>Biofeedback and Neurofeedback therapies;<br/>Health and wellness assessment;<br/>Health psychology program evaluation
1010291	pediatric oncology, neuroblastoma, angiogenesis, clinical trials, tumor biology 
1010292	Cardiovascular anesthesia, Thoracic anesthesia, Transplantation anesthesia
1010302	My primary interests are in physical activity in aging. Promoting physical activity in the community in collaboration with community based organizations.  I am also interested in community based interventions for older adults with osteoarthritis.  Finally, how physical therapists can contribute to health promotion for older adults.
1010352	Gastrointestinal cancer surgery, Melanoma / sarcoma, Pancreatic / liver cancer  surgery, Surgical oncology
1010367	Bronchoscopy, Exercise physiology, Lung cancer
1010477	My research is focused on sensory neuroscience with special interest in espins, a novel family of multifunctional actin-bundling proteins. These proteins are present at high concentration in the parallel actin bundle of hair cell stereocilia, in the microvilli of taste receptor cells, solitary chemoreceptor cells, vomeronasal sensory neurons and Merkel cells. Mutations in espin gene cause deafness and vestibular dysfunction in mice and humans. I am investigating the effect of these mutations on the sensory systems during development and adulthood. 
1010479	Development of cochlear implants including novel devices based on neural infrared stimulation, use of laser in clinical settings, micromechanics of the cochlea, imaging
1010557	Ischemic heart disease
1010571	Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist, Advance Practice Nurse; Liver Transplantation, Neurosurgical Spine Surgery, Outpatient Anesthesia and General Anesthesia.
1010600	Prosthetics, Orthotics, Mechanics, Rehabilitation
1010604	High risk pregnancies, HIV infection - perinatal, Perinatal infectious disease
1010952	Microbiology/Virology <BR><BR><br/>My research work is focused on studying the mechanisms that regulate the transcriptional activities of nuclear receptors. Nuclear receptors are transcription factors involved in regulation of many biological processes. In order to initiate transcription, additional factors are required to interact with nuclear receptors and to regulate their activities. These factors are collectively called as nuclear receptor co-factors. Several such co-factors have been identified by our studies. Generating mouse models using gene targeting technology to investigate the functions of these genes is in progress.
1011026	Neonatal infectious diseases, anemia/erythropoietin, nutrition for sick newborns.
1011074	CBT for mood and anxiety disorders in adolescence and adulthood
1011077	Community health, safety-net health care, preventive services, health care delivery.
1011092	Dr. Lee is interested in coronary artery disease, ischemic and structural heart disease, cardiac stress testing, nuclear cardiology and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Dr. Lee has extensive experience with cardiac imaging and how it impacts the diagnosis and management of patients with cardiovascular disease. He is also the recipient of research grants from the American Heart Association and St. Jude Medical, Inc. His research focuses on cardiac MRI in acute and chronic ischemic heart disease, valvular heart disease, ischemia evaluation, drug/device treatments and prevention.
1011095	We are currently studying the anatomy and physiology of myocardial scar (infarction) and how this predisposes to ventricular tachycardia. We are utilizing advanced mapping systems to develop more effective ablation techniques for this arrhythmia.
1011128	General surgical pathology, Pulmonary pathology
1011244	Ethics & economics of organ transplantation, Kidney transplantation, Living donor kidney transplant
1011272	Atrial fibrillation, Arrhythmia detection, Computerized ECG, Arrhythmia mapping, Signal processing for arrhythmias
1011279	normal swallowing physiology, speech/swallowing dysfunction, voice disorders
1011314	The quality of parent-child relationships during infancy has long-term and significant implications for a child's healthy adaptation.  Primary care pediatricians have unique opportunities to support early family relationships because of their repeated encounters with families for well child care.  My research and teaching interests have been focused on how emerging parent-infant relationships can be supported by pediatricians and on the impact that the quality of those relationships can have on the practice of primary care pediatrics.  In the initial phase of my research, I developed and validated a research protocol for observing and understanding meaningful patterns of interaction that occur between parents and infants during well child visits.  Next, I modified the observational system for clinical use, integrated it into Developmental-Behavioral Pediatrics training for pediatric residents and studied its influence on recognition, guidance and documentation in well child care visits.  My present interests revolve around exploring mechanisms by which the parent-child relationship may contribute to aspects of child health and behavior that are integral to the provision of comprehensive pediatric primary care. I am currently exploring whether there are pathways that include parent-child relationship quality that predict early childhood obesity. I hope  this research will lead to identifying families with children at-risk for early obesity who might benefit from early intervention targeting parent-child interactions, parental sensitivity to infant cues and, more broadly, parent-child relationships in lieu of, or in addition to, traditional interventions for obesity.
1011512	Arthritis disorders, General orthopaedic conditions and problems, Injuries / fractures of the upper and lower extremities, Total joint replacement
1011521	Dr. McGaghie's research and scholarship address medical and health professions education, esp. skill acquisition and maintenance, outcome measurement, simulation technology, faculty development, and team science.
1011552	As a clinical psychologist, I am interested in growth and development throughout the life span.  My clinical training has ranged from childhood to older adult development and treatment.  My publications focus on child therapy as well as childless older adult women.
1011559	Project 1. Atherosclerosis - the main cause of cardiovascular disease - is now understood to result from a chronic inflammation of large arterial blood vessels superimposed upon by high plasma LDL levels, as well as other risk factors. Plasma LDL levels are controlled, in part, by the rate of their clearance from circulation. About 60% of the LDL cleared fron the plasma occurs through the mediation of the LDL receptor, mainly in the liver. The remaining is cleared by an as yet uncharacterized hepatic LDL receptor-independent mechanism. We are currently investigating the possibility that the LDL receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6), a trans-membrane co-receptor for Wnt signaling, mediates the clearance of LDL from the plasma. <br/>Project 2. Considerable evidence suggests that auto-immunity plays a significant role in the development of atherosclerosis. In collaboration with Dr. Stephen Miller (Microbiology) we are investigating the effectiveness of tolerance-induced by atherosclerosis-specific antigen-coupled cells in preventing the formation of atherosclerotic lesions in mouse-models of this disease. <br/>.
1011595	Apinal oncology, Complex spine surgery, Deformity and reconstructive spine surgery, Rheumatoid diseases
1011618	Neuro-immune and bacterial mechanisms of bladder inflammation.
1011657	Cardiovascular anesthesia, Thoracic anesthesia, Transplantation anesthesia
1011750	Dr. Ma' clinical and research interests are focused on chronic lymphoid malignancies,including chronic lymphocytic leukemia and non-Hodgkin lymphoma.  Dr. Ma directs the translational research initiatives in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to develop and study novel treatment agents for the treatment of CLL. Her translational investigations have included novel biologic agents, mechanisms of drug resistance and immunotherapy. Dr. Ma is the Principal Investigator for a number of investigator-initiated and industry-sponsored clinical trials studying new exciting treatments agents for CLL and lymphoma. She collaborates with investigators at Northwestern University, other US institutions and international institutions in developing novel therapeutic approaches in hematologic malignancies.
1011815	Dermatopharmacology
1011821	AIDS / HIV related, Breast cancer, Palliative Care
1011822	My two current intersts/areas of subspecialization are working with adults who have personality disorders (usually people in their 30s who are having trouble sustaining intimate relationships or satisfying careers) and with couples.  I do both psychoanalysis and conjoint couples therapy.  My interest in the problems of couples has led to my creating and teaching an undergraduate course at Northwestern, 'Marriage 101: Building Loving and Lasting Relationships.'  I am a coauthor of a paper on how couples therapists and individual therapists can collaborate.
1011901	At Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Dr. Slutzky sees both general neurology and epilepsy patients. In addition to his clinical responsibilities, Dr. Slutzky pursues research interests in neural prosthetics, specifically brain-machine interfacing (BMI).  A device that records signals from the cerebral cortex, decodes them, and uses them to control a variety of outputs such as a computer cursor, prosthetic limb, or electrically-stimulated muscles in a paralyzed limb, a brain-machine interface could allow a severely motor impaired patient (quadriplegic or ?locked-in,? for example from ALS or spinal cord injury) to interact with his or her environment and potentially regain the use of a limb again. In addition, this technology provides a powerful new way to study normal in vivo brain physiology. Dr. Slutzky?s ultimate goal is to refine BMIs to the point that they can safely and effectively be used in humans for long-term applications. He recently received a NIH K08 career development award to investigate different brain signal sources as inputs to a BMI.
1011912	Woodruff?s role in understanding inhibin fluctuation in the ovary led to questions about ovarian follicle formation and persistence, which provides new ways to think about fertility preservation for young women with fertility-threatening conditions (NEJM, 2009).  She examined the regulation of follicle function in vitro and established a collaboration with a biomaterial scientist, Lonnie Shea, to develop a 3-dimensional support system that would provide the necessary bio-integrity for follicle growth (Tissue Eng. 9:1013, 2003; News and Views in Nat. Med. 14:1178, 2008 and Nat. Med. 14:1182).  These studies have been very productive and the current culture system supports live births of mice. The system is being adopted to non-human primate and human ovarian follicles. She coined the term oncofertility to describe this work.  Finally, she has used physiological studies together with mathematical modeling to explore the kinetics of follicle formation and persistence in the mouse (Dev. Biol. 298:149 and Dev. Biol. 298:132). These studies reveal the necessary and sufficient nature of the initial follicle pool established in the ovary during the time of development (Nature Med, 14:1190, 2008). Hallmarks of Woodruff career have included a strong focus on ovarian biology, on interdisciplinary approaches to problems, and application of the overall health of women.
1011952	General surgical pathology
1012081	gross anatomy, histology, cellular electrophysiology, sinoventricular conduction system, muscular valvular apparatus, heart
1012104	Pediatric anesthesiology
1012150	Comprehensive care of adults, Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Medical consultations
1012293	Lung surgery, Thoracic surgery
1012336	Cytomegalovirus is a ubiquitous herpesvirus which latently infects the majority of adults.  Reactivation of latent virus occurs frequently, and in immunocompromised individuals, such as recipients of solid organ and bone marrow transplants, reactivation of CMV is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. The primary focus of research in our lab is the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms by which cytomegalovirus (CMV) establishes latent infection, in which the DNA is present but no virus is produced, and the mechanisms by which the virus reactivates, starts actively replicating and induces disease in vivo.  Using murine CMV as a model system, our studies have shown that the virus establishes latency by shutting down viral gene expression through recruitment of transcriptional repressors to the viral genome.  We have developed a unique kidney transplant model for studying reactivation of the virus which closely approximates clinical settings in which reactivation occurs, and we are investigating molecular signaling pathways that lead to transcriptional reactivation of viral gene expression.  This may lead to identification of novel targets for therapeutic intervention which could prevent reactivation of CMV and its associated pathologies.
1012450	cell-matrix adhesion, epithelial cells, pulmonary biology, mechanosignal transduction, hemidesmosomes, focal contacts, laminins
1012560	General obstetrics and gynecology, Ultrasound (obstetrics and gynecology)
1012563	My laboratory is interested in translational research in lymphoma. We are investigating novel signaling pathways in lymphoma, using cell lines and animal model systems. Our research is currently focused on the biology of reactive oxygen species signaling pathways, and active investigations include:  1) the biology of the lactone diterpenoids in lymphoma; 2) the development of drug-loaded nanodisks or nano particles as a drug delivery vehicle in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) and other lymphomas, in collaboration with investigators from the Childrens Hospital Research Institute (CHORI) in Oakland, CA. and Chad Thaxon, MD, PhD at Northwestern; 3) the study of hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) in lymphoma, in collaboration with Dr. Paul Schumacker, . 4) the biology of arsenicals in lymphoma cell death pathways, in collaboration with Dr. Leon Platanias, Dr. Jane Winter, and Dr. Tom O'Halloran, all from Northwestern;  Clinical research interests include the study of novel immune stimulatory strategies following stem cell transplant in lymphoma and new approaches to the use of radioimmunotherapy (RIT) in lymphoma. Clinical research studies are carried out through the Northwestern University Lymphoma Program and through national co-operative groups such as the Eastern Co-operative Oncology Group (ECOG).
1012563	We are investigating the mechanism of reactive oxygen species (ROS) mediated apoptosis in myeloma and lymphoma. We are looking at both the intrinsic and extrinsic caspase system and the role of ROS in cellular signalling
1012598	Clinically, I predominantly treat inflammatory bowel disease patients where I specialize in the use of immunomodulatory therapies. On a research level, my lab is involved in understanding the mechanisms for colitis-induced colon cancer. We focus on regulation of intestinal stem cells using genetically altered mouse models and analysis of human biopsy tissue.
1012598	The Barrett lab investigates mechanisms of epithelial stem cell activation in mouse and human models of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD). Areas of interest include studying the cooperation between phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) and Wnt in activating beta catenin signaling (He et al Nat Gen 2007). We find that intestinal inflammation increases PI3K-activated beta catenin in intestinal epithelial progenitor and stem cell populations. We propose that this pathway will be a novel target in strategies for chemoprevention (e.g. colitis-induced cancer) and recovery from radiation-induced stem cell injury (e.g. after nuclear attack). In all projects of the lab we strive to have strong translational components by testing lab-generated hypotheses in patient material.
1012787	Dementia, Internal medicine
1012808	Dr. Dalton has special interest in the mangement of prostate, kidney, and bladder cancers with an emphasis on robotic surgery. 
1012834	I've had thirty years of experience as a psychiatric clinician.  in addition to my private practice I work in two community programs providing treatment to individuals with chronic and severe mental illness, Trilogy and Housing Options for the Mentally Ill in Evanston.
1013067	HIV infection, viral hepatitis, antiviral drug development, global health research
1013067	Principal Investigator, Northwestern AIDS Clinical Trails Group/NIH/NIAID.<br/>Principal Investigator, Northwestern AIDS International Training and Research Program, NIH/Fogarty International Center.<br/>Principal Investigator, Northwestern Strategy for Developing and Institutionalizing Global Health Programs, NIH/Fogarty International Center.<br/>Nigeria Country Director (Harvard University primary grantee), President's Emergency Program for AIDS Relief, DHHS.<br/>Clinical Director (David Kelso PI, Northwestern), Diagnostic point of care development,Gates Foundation.<br/>Clinical Director (James Baker PI, U Michigan), Intranasal vaccine administration.   
1013078	I help patients who struggle with emotional and compulsive overeating understand the connection between their experience of stress and their lack of control over their eating. Understanding this connection helps motivate patients to focus on the cause of the problem rather than the effect, and to develop more effective coping strategies to overcome their reliance on food as a short-term coping mechanism.<br/>My research interests include psychological models of behavioral self-control, motivation for healthy lifestyle change, and the causes and treatment of patient non-adherence.
1013105	We are using multiple myeloma as a model to understand the actions of glucocorticoids (GC) and the glucocorticoid receptor (GR).  Development of resistance to GCs remains a critical clinical problem which involves the loss of GR expression.  We are exploring post-transcriptional mechanisms to understand the loss of receptor expression.  In addition we are investigating new drugs for the treatment of myeloma.  We have discovered novel nucleoside analogs that are effective in both GC-sensitive and -resistant cells.  We are working on bringing these compounds to clinic.
1013131	Coronary bypass surgery, Minimally invasive valve repair and replacement, Transmyocardial laser revascularization
1013138	Food Allergy: My interests include pathogenesis of allergen sensitization and food allergy, as well as research regarding immunomodulatory interventions for food allergy.<br/>Asthma: My interests lie in understanding the factors which contribute to inner-city asthma and its greater morbidity/mortality as compared to non-inner city populations.  I am especially interested in the relationships between allergen sensitization, exposure and morbidity for cockroach, rodents and fungi.  I am interested in psycho-social factors which contribute to the burden of asthma in this population.  I am also engaged in clinical trials to improve therapy for childhood asthma.
1013310	I have a variety of research interests with most relating to abdominal imaging (GI/GU) especially abdominal MR and CT.  These include pancreaticobiliary and hepatic imaging and new evolving imaging techniques related especially to MR.
1013371	HIV infection, Sexually-transmitted diseases
1013382	Asthma, Hay fever, Idiopathic anaphylaxis, Sinusitis, Urticaria
1013382	I am conducting clinical research on chronic idiopathic urticaria and angioedema in collaboration with Marianna Kulka PhD who is a mast cell expert and has a mast cell line. We will attempt to elucidate the pathgenesis of the disease, identifying histamine releasing factor in the sera and also identifying mediators that may be released locally.  We will do this with a blister chamber that raises a small fluid filled blister.  We will identify cytokines and local mediators at the site of lesions and compare this with  unaffected skin.  We will also take biopsies of lesions.  We have IRB approval, have collected sera from several patienets and are recruiting for these further studies.<br/>I am working with several faculty in GI and Paul Bryce, PhD on developing research in eosinophilic esophagitis.
1013622	Research interests include use of innovative treatment modalities for head and neck cancer in order to obtain better tumor control and decrease toxicity of treatment.
1013766	Boyd Metzger, M.D. is the Tom D Spies Professor of Metabolism and Nutrition in the Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism & Molecular Medicine at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. <br/>Dr. Metzger obtained his undergraduate education at the University of South Dakota and earned his M.D. at the State University of Iowa. He was an Intern, Medical Resident and Clinical Fellow in Metabolism at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago and a Postdoctoral Fellow in Biological Chemistry at Washington University in St Louis. Dr. Metzger's memberships in professional organizations include: the Endocrine Society, the American Diabetes Association (ADA), the American Federation for Medical Research, the Central Society for Clinical Investigation and American Association for the Advancement of Science (Fellow). <br/>Dr. Metzger has had a career-long interest in the impact of gestational diabetes pre existing diabetes and states of altered nutrition during pregnancy on the intrauterine, perinatal and lifelong health of offspring. He has served on the editorial board of Diabetes and of Diabetologia and has been a member of the Organizing Committee of each of the four ADA sponsored International Workshop Conferences on gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) and Chairman and Proceedings Editor of the last two. He will serve in the same capacity for the upcoming fifth workshop conference to be held November 11-13, 2005. He has published more than 200 journal articles and book chapters. Currently, he is Principal Investigator of the NICHD/NIDDK funded Hyperglycemia & Adverse Pregnancy Outcome (HAPO) study. The immediate objective of HAPO is to establish the level of maternal hyperglycemia that is associated with a clinically significant risk of adverse perinatal outcome. It is hoped that future risks for obesity and metabolic disturbances can also be established through long-term follow-up.
1013766	Diabetes mellitus, Thyroid disease
1013771	intensive care, respiratory failure, mechanical ventilation, chronic respiratory insufficiency, clinical pharmacology
1013783	Blood group isoimmunization and other conditions requiring intruterine fetal transfusions
1013810	Evaluation and treatment of sports and musculoskeletal injuries
1013825	Research focused on health literacy within emergency room and office based waiting areas. Interests in community medicine and child legislative advocacy.
1013835	Upper and Lower Limb Prosthetics, Amputation Management
1013854	Obstetric anesthesia
1013855	My major research interests are developing new therapies for cystic fibrosis, characterizing and treating early lung disease in infants and young children with cystic fibrosis, improving CF care and reducing outcomes disparities in high risk patients.
1013880	Comprehensive care of adults, Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Medical care of the patient with diabetes
1014038	Clinical dermatology and clinico-pathological correlations.
1014075	Aneursyms, venous problems, Arterial disease, General vascular surgery
1014076	Eyelid and orbital diseases and surgeries, Lacrimal[tearing] and reconstructive surgeries, Ophthalmic plastics / laser surgeries; Cosmetic fillers and Botox use; Cosmetic eyelid surgeies; ptosis[drooping lids]; Thyroid related eye disease;
1014079	Inpatient teaching attending at Jesse Brown VA; focus of teaching is hospital medicine and clinical problem solving
1014121	General surgical pathology, cytopathology, GI/liver, gynecologic pathology
1014287	diagnosis&treatment
1014318	Diagnostic radiology, General radiology, Outpatient radiology
1014338	Adoption and Foster Care, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome
1014350	Dr. George Cybulski is a National Cancer Institute investigator in Radiation Therapy Oncology Group trials for treatment of malignant gliomas.  His primary clinical interests include surgical treatment of diseases of the spine, surgical treatment of spinal cord injury, surgical treatment of tumors of the brain (including pituitary tumors and gliomas) and spinal cord (including schwannomas and meningiomas).
1014368	My primary clinical interests are in the area of complex urinary tract reconstructive surgery in children with a special emphasis on hypospadias and the neurogenic bladder.  My basic science focus is on tissue engineering of bladder tissue and bladder smooth muscle physiology.
1014587	The treatment of Head and Neck Cancer challenges the oncologic and reconstructive skills of the surgeon as no other. Only through an experienced team approach can the patients recieve optimal disease control and functional and cosmetic results that allow them to resume their occupational and social roles in society. This has been my passion for over twenty five years. 
1014614	Health Services Research
1014614	Joe Feinglass, PhD is a Research Professor of Medicine in the Division of General Internal Medicine and the Institute for Healthcare Studies.  Dr. Feinglass is a health services researcher with a degree in Public Policy Analysis.  He has over 20 years of experience in health policy, quality improvement, health disparities, medical informatics, patient safety, and social epidemiology research with over 120 peer reviewed publications.
1014634	Dr. Kundu's research focuses on the diagnosis and therapy of skin disorders that occur more frequently in individuals with skin of color or ethnic skin.
1014824	Cytopathology, Fine needle aspiration<BR><BR><br/>Cytopathology
1014856	Treatment Resistant Depression, Bipolar Disorders, TMS, Psychopharmacology
1014857	Dr. McVary's primary clinical areas are prostate diseases, including prostate cancer and BPH, as well as the evaluation and treatment of sexual function. Dr. McVary has an active research laboratory that investigates the molecular mechanisms controlling the neural role in erectile dysfunction as well as the neural control of prostate development and function, and he is the principal investigator on two clinical trials studying medical and surgical therapies for prostate disease.
1015007	Dr. Kopp's research focuses on various forms of thyroid disease. Principal areas of interests are the molecular genetics of congenital hypothyroidism and Pendred's syndrome. Pendred's syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by congenital sensorineural deafness, goiter and impaired iodide organification. It is caused by mutations in the PDS (Pendred syndrome) gene that encodes pendrin, an anion transporter belonging to the solute carrier family 26A (SCL26A). <br/>Other areas of active research include the molecular genetics of endocrine diseases such as neurohypophyseal and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, and the analysis of polymorphisms in genes involved in androgen metabolism in order to define determinants of steroid hormones and prostate cancer risk in men.<br/>His clinical activities are primarily focusing on patients with thyroid dysfunction, thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer.
1015007	Dr. Kopp?s research interests focus primarily on the genetic basis of endocrine disorders, in particular inborn errors of thyroid development and thyroid hormone synthesis, as well as disorders of water metabolism (diabetes insipidus).<br/>His clinical activities focus primarily on patients with thyroid dysfunction and thyroid cancer, but also include the care of patients with pituitary disorders, adrenal disorders and rare genetic endocrine disorders.
1015036	Neurogenic communication disorders, aphasia, right hemisphere stroke, neglect
1015048	neuroreceptor, ion channel, neuropharmacology, neurotoxicology, neurophysiology, electrophysiology, alcohol, insecticide, anesthetic, Alzheimer's drug
1015102	Sarah L. Chamlin, M.D. is an Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Dermatology at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine and an Attending Physician, Children?s Memorial Hospital specializing in Pediatric Dermatology.  Her clinical interests include hemangiomas and other vascular lesions, hair and nails and general Pediatric Dermatology.  Her research interests include quality-of-life measurement in children and teens with skin disease and hemangiomas.  She is an active member of the Hemangioma Investigator Group.
1015113	Colposcopy, Hysterectomy, Teen pregnancy
1015205	Cytopathology   Surgical Pathology   Pediatric Pathology<br/>Pediatric tumors, cytology
1015262	Dr. Volpert's main area of study focuses on the molecular mechanisms of angiogenesis, the process by which new vascular bed forms.
1015324	aaaaaaaaaaa
1015337	mechansims underlying cytotoxic cell granule mediated apoptosis
1015350	Dr. Lurain's primary research interests are related to the clinical factors associated with prognosis and treatment of gestational trophoblastic diseases (hydatidiform mole, choriocarcinoma, and placental site trophoblastic tumor) as well as  uterine and ovarian cancers.. He has received research support from the American Cancer Society, the National Cancer Institute, pharmaceutical companies, as well as charitable groups, such as the Chicago Baseball Cancer Charities, the Cancer Research Foundation, the Stenn Fund for Ovarian Cancer Research, the Holly Missner Fund for Ovarian Cancer Research, the Kathleen Warble Foundation, the Cheryl Halat Memorial Fund for Ovarian Cancer Research,  and the Eileen M. Arder Fund for Endometrial Cancer Research.  Dr. Lurain is an author on more than 190 publications, including scientific articles, reviews, chapters, and books.
1015379	Pain sensitivity & threshold and postoperative pain, Obesity and anesthesia, Sleep apnea and postoperative outcomes, Minimally invaseive surgery outcomes, faculty career development
1015450	All aspects of echocardiographic imaging.
1015471	Associate Clinical Director of the Northwestern Scleroderma (SSc) Program, Director of the Scleroderma Patient Registry and biorepository. 
1015529	Pain medicine
1015570	Anti-thrombotic therapy, Atrial fibrillation, Cardiac stress testing, Cardiovascular critical care, Coronary heart disease, Ischemic heart disease, Nuclear cardiology
1015570	My research interests are in the areas of antithrombotic therapy, particularly in the acute coronary syndrome patient, lipid management and reduction of cardiac risk, antihypertensive therapies, and nuclear cardiac imaging.
1015615	Echocardiography, Valve disease, Women's cardiovascular health
1015615	The assessment if valvular regurgitation using 2D and 3D echocardiography
1015812	Preschooler's behavior problems; <br/>Psychological interventions in pediatric primary care
1015829	Spinal cord injury, rehabilitation, male infertility
1016050	I have taught a 3 quarter course: ?The Opening Phase of the Psychoanalytic Process: Basic Concepts and Fundamental Principles? from 1996 to the present in the Chicago Institute Analytic training program.<br/>I have presented a series of symposia, ?The Reluctant Patient,? to a number of mental health agencies in the Chicago area. <br/>I am a member of the American Psychoanalytic Association and the Chicago Psychoanalytic Society and serve as a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University.<br/>My clinical focus is the psychoanalytic and psychotherapeutic treatment of adolescents and adults. 
1016062	Dr. Carol Rosenberg serves as the Director of Preventive Health Initiatives for Evanston Northwestern Healthcare.<br/>She is Chair of the Cancer Survivorship Program task force for Evanston Northwestern Healthcare.<br/>Dr. Rosenberg is a lead investigator and writing group chair for the national Women's Health Initiative Study.<br/>Dr Rosenberg is the founder and Director of the Living in the Future (LIFE) Cancer Survivorship Program of Evanston Northwestern Healthcare, for which she was awarded a Lance Armstrong Foundation grant during the program's implementation phase.
1016221	My primary research interest is in mechanisms of low bone density at diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in pediatric patients.  I hypothesize that dysregulation of mesenchymal stem cells in the bone marrow microenvironment leads to aberrant preference for adipocyte development over osteoblast development.  I also do clinical research related to long-term outcomes after cancer therapy and stem cell transplant during childhood.
1016296	Glomerular diseases, Hypertension, Transplant Nephrology
1016299	Echocardiography, General cardiology, Prosthetic heart valve disease
1016313	Comprehensive care of adults, Preventive medicine
1016319	My primary area of research in recent years has been in the use of simulation for training medical care givers in their various fields.
1016392	My primary research interests include unique combinations of radiotherapy with biologically targeted agents, the amelioration of radiation toxicity and unique method of delivering radiotherapy. I currently focus on gynecological, gastrointestinal and breast cancers.
1016513	Voluntary psychiatric consultations.
1016521	I am interested in all types of abdominal wall, incisional and inguinal hernias.
1016527	Lipid Disorders, Cardiovascular Nutrition, Coronary Disease in Women, Premature Coronary Disease
1016527	Lipid metabolism, cardiovascular nutrition; premature coronary heart disease
1016528	Achalasia, Gallstones, GERD, Hernia, Laparoscopic cholecystectomy, Laparoscopic Heller myotomy, Laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication, Laparoscopic Splenectomy, Laparoscopic ventral hernia repair, Pancreatitis and Pancreatic Cancer
1016548	Pediatric spine/spine deformity; growth and etiology of idiopathic scoliosis; medical education/surgical skills acquisition training.
1016555	Myeloma Research, Stem Cell Transplant
1016711	To clarify function of ion channels, physiological snd pharmacological research are on going using various techniques including patch-clamp, and live cell imaging.
1016759	Clinical treatment and translational research in Multiple Sclerosis, CNS Demyelinating disease, Neurologic complications of AIDS
1016762	Family decision-making, protective services for the elderly, disability and public policy, community services evaluation
1016763	Endoscopic ultrasound, Ulcer disease
1016763	General gastroenterology, colon cancer screening is a particular interest. In addition, acid peptic disease and gastrointestinal complications of NSAIDS. 
1016768	Acne, Chemical peels, Tumescent liposuction
1016805	Cataract surgery, Cornea disease, Cornea transplant surgery, Lasik surgery, Refractive surgery
1016930	NFAT, Calcineurin, Transcription Factors, Signal transduction, Gene Regulation, T cell activation, Th1/Th2, Adipogenesis, Cancer, Oncogenes
1016969	Dr. Lee's research focuses on regeneration therapy of endocrine insufficiency. He uses gene therapy tool (Adenovirus and Ad/AAV hybrid vectors) for the directed differentiation of adult stem cells.  He is also currently interested in pre-mRNA splicing in human cancer cells. 
1017008	My research interests include the development of mesh for hernia repair.  Our polyurethane coated polypropylene mesh at PSD, LLC was given 510K FDA approval for marketing in January 2010. The polyurethane material has been licensed to K2M in Canada for repair and replacement of nucleus pulposus in the human spine. My work on the SAGES Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy Pearls series proceeds nicely.  Last year I satisfied the credentialing requirements of the ARDMS for the RVT and RPVI credentials.  These ultrasound credentials are beneficial to another of my interests, the diagnosis and treatment of venous disorders using ultrasound guided endovenous treatments. I remain active in committees CME and Patient Safety and Outcomes for SAGES and for American College of Phlebology where I chair the Distance Learning Committee and as a member of the CME/outcomes committee.
1017032	Pediatric radiology,<br/>Pediatric nuclear medicine,<br/>Metabolic bone disease
1017036	Dr. Avram?s research interests include pharmacokinetics (PKs) and pharmacodynamics (PDs) of hypnotics, sedatives, opioids, analgesics, non-depolarizing neuromuscular blockers, chemotherapeutics, etc.  His major research focus has been the development and evaluation of detailed PK models of rapidly acting intravanously administered drugs from the moment of injection to serve as the basis for understanding the PK basis of interindividual variability in response to these agents, which often have low clinical margins of safety.
1017061	Chorea, Dystonia, Essential tremor, Multiple systems atrophy (MSA), Myoclonus, Neuro-ophthalmology, Parkinson's disease, Progressive supranuclear palsy ( PSP), Tics
1017082	Comprehensive care of adults, Occupational medicine
1017092	Herpes Virus, HIV Infection
1017153	intercellular junctions, adhesion, desmosomes, adherens junctions, signal transduction, cell motility, skin disease, cadherins, cancer metastasis.<BR><BR><br/>I am interested in the regulation of the intercellular adhesive junction, the desmosome, during processes such as wound healing and morphogenesis. Currently my studies are focused on the plakin protein, desmoplakin, an obligate member of the desmosomal plaque, which mediates the interaction between the plaque and the intermediate filament network. This interaction with the intermediate filament network is required for maintaining tissue integrity, particularly those tissues undergoing large amounts of stress, such as the heart and skin. The importance of desmoplakin in maintaining adhesive strength is highlighted by cardiomyopathies and skin diseases, which result from desmoplakin mutations. Utilizing biochemistry and fixed and live cell imaging techniques we are analyzing the dynamics of desmoplakin during desmosome formation and the roles the intermediate filament and microfilament networks play in that process.
1017219	Intervention cardiology
1017224	Spinal disorders, Spinal reconstruction, Sports medicine
1017234	Dr. Sharon Unti is currently the Director of the Pediatric Residency for Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine based at Children's Memorial Hospital.  Her interests include both graduate and undergraduate medical education, particularly curriculum design and evaluation processes.
1017247	retinal detachment, diabetic retinopathy, macular degeneration, uveitis/retinitis, intravitreal injections, laser treatment, Retina diseases and surgery
1017256	I carry out clinical and basic research related to dizziness and vocal motor control.  My clinical research mainly concerns vestibular evoked myogenic potentials.  My basic science research mainly concerns mathematical modeling of feedback control of voice F0 and amplitude.<br/>Clinically, I am the 'dizzy doctor' at Northwestern, and see a large array of patients with inner ear disorders as well as more complex pictures. 
1017340	Comprehensive care of adults, Women's healthcare
1017341	Advanced laparoscopic surgery, In-vitro fertilization, Infertility
1017403	Primary current research interests are the mechanisms of biomineralization in bones and teeth, and the role of non-collagenous 'SIBLING' proteins in regulation of mineral placement in collagen matricies. The second major interest is in the structure and assembly of collagen molecules and fibrils. We have recently completed studies of the role of amelogenin splice product peptides in the epithelial-mesenchymal signaling during embryonic tooth formation.
1017423	My research focuses on adaptation of stroke survivors and their family caregivers, including prevention and amelioration of depression and promoting preparedness for the caregiving role.  In addition, I am interested in prevention of pressure ulcers in persons with spinal cord injury.
1017499	nuclear transport, nuclear structure, nuclear pore complex, nuclear envelope, nuclear lamins
1017510	Dr. Nadler?s specific areas of interest include robotic prostatectomy, concentrating his efforts on outcomes of robotic prostatectomy patients specifically pertaining to erectile function and margin rates. He is also pioneering a technique of robotic partial nephrectomy, which avoids clamping the renal hilum to better preserve kidney function during robotic partial nephrectomy for renal cell cancer. He also continues to do work in the minimally invasive surgical management of complex kidney stones and renal pelvis tumors.
1017531	Perinatal pathology
1017687	I mainly work with adult individuals suffering from treatment resistant mood and anxiety disorders. In addition, I work with a number of patients with chronic pain issues. 
1017700	Comprehensive care of adults, Preventive medicine
1017700	Within Medical Humanities, my interest is in the use of reflective writing in the education and professional development of physicians.   
1017743	Neuropathology<br><br><br/>As a neuropathologist with principal clinico-academic effort in diagnostic surgical neuropathology, my research interest encompasses translational-collaborative  studies related to bio-predictive markers for adult diffuse-type gliomas.
1017877	My primary interest is the psychiatric care of the older adult with chronic or new onset mental illness.  My work includes providing consultations to  physicians requesting recommendations regarding the care of their older adult patients with mental illness.  Another focus involves teaching geriatric fellows, psychiatry residents and medical students in a biopsychosocial approach to the diagnosis and treatment of older adults with mental illness. I am also interested in developing interventions addressing the stigma of mental illness.
1017968	Comprehensive care of adults, Medical care of the patient with hypertension, Preventive medicine
1017971	Comprehensive care of adults, Medical care of business executives, Perioperative medical consultations
1017983	Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist, Advance Practice Nurse in IL and MI<br/>Oupatient Anesthesia,<br/> Positioning and safety issues for both the OR Staff and Patient,<br/>and preventive methods for pain management.
1018009	A primary goal of my work is to establish the approaches and benefits of genomics informed personalized medicine.  A key element of this is participation in the eMERGE consortium (http://gwas.net), where I serve as the steering committee chair.  This project uses Electronic Health Records linked biobank samples (www.nugene.org) to study the genetics of disease susceptibility, therapeutic outcomes and pharmacogenomics.  My group is also interested in genome informatics, particularly genome annotation and visualization technology.
1018012	During her years of work in pediatric practice-based research, Dr. Binns has participated in research studies on a wide array to topics relevant to primary care practice.  Studies she has led in community primary care settings have focused on preventive care delivery, lead poisoning, obesity, and tobacco addiction.  Other research studies she has completed on these topics gathered samples from hosiptal and out-patient clinical settings.
1018049	Dr. Fiebig coordinates the Cochlear Implant Program at Northwestern.   She has worked with the program since it began in 1993.
1018091	Acid-base and electrolytes, Hypertension; diabetic nephropathy, Nephrology
1018091	Dr. Batlle's research interests are in the area of acid/base and potassium physiology and pathophysiology, with special emphasis in the area of distal renal tubular acidosis. At the bench level, Dr. Batlle's research team is interested in examining the cellular and molecular events involved in the development of hypertension and nephropathy in patients with diabetes. His laboratory has taken a holistic research approach that incorporates modern techniques of molecular biology, cell biology, whole animal studies, and studies using cells derived from human subjects. The predisposition to the development of kidney disease in some diabetic patients is being examined at the level of cell cycle regulatory proteins using skin fibroblasts as a surrogate cell model.  More recent work is focusing on ACE2 and its interaction with ACE in animal models of diabetes.
1018134	Immunotherapy strategies for treatment of cancers<br/>Mycosis fungoides
1018134	Interests include experimental therapeutics for the treatment of genitourinary malignancies and skin lymphomas and cancers.  Immunotherapeutic and anti-angiogenic approaches remain a major focus for such diseases as renal cell carcinoma, melanoma and cutaneous T-cell lymphomas.
1018163	Previous research has focused on investigations of the Physical Therapist Clinical Performance Instrument, mentoring of physical therapist students, balancing career and family choices in female physical therapists and physical therapist students, osteoporosis, and using online resources in patient and clinical education. Current research is on performance of dynamic standing balance by women who are breast cancer survivors and who have low bone mineral density.
1018167	Clinical Interests: asthma, chronic obstructive oulmonary disease (COPD), interstitial Lung Disease, sarcoidosis. <br/>Research Interests: airway inflammation and remodeling in asthma and COPD; effects of hypercapnia (elevated levels of CO2) on innate immunity and host defense in the lung.
1018168	Metabolic bone diseases, kidney stones, hyperparathyroidism, glomerulonephritis, renal osteodystrophy
1018246	The long-term goal of my lab is to identify and investigate molecules that play important roles in mammalian hearing, thus to enrich our understanding of cochlear physiology, and to further develop a better strategy to prevent hearing loss.  Outer hair cells (OHCs) are essential for providing high sensitivity and frequency selectivity of hearing.  They are also the most vulnerable cells in the inner ear and are involved in most sensorineural hearing loss that affects the hearing of millions of people.  It is known that OHC death is strongly connected with the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS).  Yet, it is not fully understood why OHCs, as compared to other cells in the organ of Corti, are more vulnerable to ROS.  The main function of OHCs is to amplify mechanical signals through their somatic electromotility.  This exclusive property is executed by a unique motor protein called prestin (Zheng et al., Nature, 2000).  We are currently investigating prestin?s protective role against oxidative stress in the ear using different prestin-expressing cell lines and prestin-knockout/prestin-knockin animal models.  We are focused on understanding the molecular mechanism of motor protein prestin using various cellular, biochemical and molecular biological methods including high throughput small molecule compound library screening procedures.  These studies will not only expand knowledge of prestin as the OHC-based cochlear amplifier at the molecular level, but also produce a deeper understanding of mechanisms associated with outer hair cells loss, and may offer new methods for the prevention of OHC damage.
1018341	Preventive medicine, Women's healthcare
1018377	Airway management<br/>Education in airway management<br/>Education in Simulation Research
1018454	Cross-sectional imaging of the body, CT angiography, Multislice computed tomography (CT)
1018461	Dr Kibbe is the principal investigator for the Patient Study Calendar module software development project, the caBIG development project that has developed a syntactically and semantically harmonized interoperable patient study calendar using agile design practices. Dr. Kibbe is the co-PI of the NIH-funded Dictyostelium Model Organism Database dictyBase. He is a proponent of Agile software development methodologies and the Agile Unified Process Framework and the application of these to biomedical research problems. Dr. Kibbe's group has developed NOTIS, the clinical trial information management system used for all cancer trials at Northwestern and by the genotype/phenotype biorepository NUgene (http://www.nugene.org) as the source of identified information on participant in NUgene. In NUCATS, the Northwestern CTSA organization, Dr. Kibbe recently received ARRA funding to extend NOTIS to all disease areas at Northwestern, and release the eNOTIS project as a CTSA-sponsored open source project. He is also a key participant in building a computable research representation of clinical data, through his work with the Northwestern Medicine Enterprise Data Warehouse, the caBIG Clinical Annotations Engine (which is designed to build a computable representation of pathology reports from the Cerner and Epic EMR systems), and ontology efforts, including being a co-founder of the Disease Ontology (http:/diseaseontology.sourceforge.net) and the semantically computable BRIDG domain analysis model that is being jointly developed by members of HL7, CDISC and caBIG to represent clinical research information and the semantics necessary to conduct clinical trials.
1018513	My clinical interests include working with individuals and couples experiencing problems with communication, intimacy, sexuality, sexual functioning, and psychological or sexual aspects of reproductive health care; such as fertility, menopause, gynecological or urological disorders.  I also see couples for premarital counseling. 
1018581	Comprehensive care of adults, Peripheral vascular disease, Preventive medicine
1018597	As Director of Gynecologic Endoscopy at Northwestern since 1995, I have developed an expertise in advanced minimally invasive surgeries including laparoscopy, hysteroscopy for conditions of endometriosis, fibroids, adhesions, tubal disease and ovarian cysts.  I perform laparoscopic total and subtotal hysterectomy, myomectomy, cystectomy and hysteroscopic removal of fibroids and adhesions.
1018621	Research in the Turek laboratory is focused on the study of sleep and circadian rhythms, with special interest in identifying genes that regulate sleep and circadian rhythms. Ongoing work on sleep and circadian rhythms includes an investigation of: (1) the neurochemical, molecular, and cellular events involved in the entrainment, generation and expression of circadian rhythms arising from a central biological clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus, (2) the genetics of the circadian clock system and the molecular genetic mechanisms underlying the sleep-wake cycle, (3) the feedback effects of the sleep-wake cycle on the circadian clock regulating the timing of that cycle, (4) the effects of advanced age on the expression of behavioral and endocrine rhythms, and on the expression of circadian clock genes, 5) the links between sleep, circadian rhythms and energy metabolism and, (6) the role of melatonin in modulating sleep and circadian rhythms.<br/>In addition to our work on rodents, we have established extensive collaborations with clinical researchers. Studies in humans are aimed at shifting the human clock in an attempt to alleviate mental and physical problems that are associated with disorders in circadian time-keeping, particularly in the elderly and in shift-workers. In addition, we are using both pharmacological and non-pharmacological approaches to determine if we can reverse the effects of aging on the circadian clock system in both rodents and humans. Our sleep, circadian and metabolic studies are focused on how disruption in these interactions can lead to obesity, diabetes and CVD.
1018693	My primary research interest is in perinatal epidemiology. I have an investigational interest in understanding the social determinants of racial and ethnic group disparties in birth outcome(preterm delivery, low birth weight, neonatal and post-neonatal mortality) in the United States.
1018694	As a member of the soft tissue sarcoma committee of the Children's Oncology Group (COG), my primary clinical research interest lies in the area of clinical trials for pediatric patients with soft tissue sarcomas.  I am study chair for a group-wide phase III COG clinical trial for rhabdomyosarcoma.  I also serve as Institutional Principal Investigator for COG.  My primary basic  research interest lies in understanding the regulation and function of the GLI1 oncogene, as well as understanding the role of Hedgehog-GLI1 signal transduction in pediatric solid tumors.
1018707	My primary research interest lies in clinical neuroscience in neonatology.  I have spent time looking at physiologic stability in preterm infants relating to cerebral oxygen levels.  I have also correlated cerebral oxygenation with short term neuromotor outcomes.
1018731	In my laboratory we study the cellular and molecular <br/>mechanisms of immunopathogenesis of T cell-mediated central nervous system (CNS) demyelinating diseases, the <br/>chemokine regulation of cell migration and host responses to mucosal bacterial infection, and the role of chemokines in the migration of B cell lymphoma.  The laboratory employs two mouse models of multiple sclerosis (MS): Theiler's virus-induced demyelinating disease (a virus-induced model of MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) (an autoimmune model of MS). In particular, the laboratory is examining the chemokine and chemokine receptor biology of T cell, monocyte, and dendritic cell recruitment during CNS demyelinating<br/>disease.  In addition, we are examining the balance between cellular and molecular mechanisms of oral tolerance induction and generation of mucosal<br/>immunity/host defense to bacterial and viral pathogens.  Finally, the laboratory uses a model of murine B cell lymphoma to study the mechanisms of tumor cell migration to lymphoid and extra-lymphoid tissues. <br/>The approaches utilized in the laboratory are applicable to both the understanding of basic biologic mechanisms of <br/>disease progression and treatment of autoimmune diseases, enhancement of immunity to pathogens, and treatment of cancer.
1018772	Dysmorphology
1018819	Hospital-based care of the medical patient
1018820	Cosmetic Plastic Surgery with emphasis on  optimization of results in Aesthetic Plastic surgery
1018857	neurophysiology, neurocomputation, neuroanatomy, modularity, signals, information, learning, plasticity, engineering, adaptation
1018864	Circadian Rhythms, Sleep, Aging, Phase Shifting, Light, Exercise, Melatonin, Circadian Rhythm Disorders, Sleep Disorders, Delayed Sleep Phase Syndrome
1018947	clinical supervision,supervision,genetic counseling
1019040	Clinical focus on the assessment and outpatient treatment of mood and personality disorders with a special interest in the psychological sequela of disorders of attention and non-verbal learning.
1019129	Carl L. Backer, MD is the A.C. Buehler Professor of Surgery, Division Head of Cardiovascular-Thoracic Surgery, and Surgical Director of the Cardiac Transplant Program at Children's Memorial Hospital in Chicago.  He is a world-renowned pediatric cardiovascular-thoracic surgeon.  Dr. Backer specializes in the surgical treatment of congenital heart disease in infants and children and also performs complex re-do procedures in adults.  His primary interests are:  adults with congenital heart disease, arrhythmia surgery, heart transplantation, vascular ring surgery, tracheal reconstruction, and pacemakers.  He has authored or co-authored over 180 refereed articles, 68 book chapters, and 4 textbooks.  He is the co-editor of the 2nd and 3rd editions of the well-known textbook, Pediatric Cardiac Surgery.  <br/>His research incorporates over 40 years of database material from Children's Memorial Hospital.  Future research endeavors will focus on cardiac stem cell therapy for pediatric cardiomyopathies. 
1019185	Interventional radiology; use of real-time ultrasound for vascular and inteventional procedural guidance, transplant interventions, tumor ablation, lymphatic system interventions, percutaneous biopsy, chest interventional procedures, biliary and renal interventions, TIPS
1019312	Cervical and lumbar degenerative disc disease, Spinal cord injury, Spinal disorders, Spinal reconstruction
1019313	Back pain and chronic pain, Brain tumors, Headache, Neuro-oncology
1019370	clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, drug effect, dose-response, blood volume, ICG, thiopental, intravenous anesthetics, antipyrine
1019437	To be completed.
1019546	Osteoarthritis
1019567	I am very interested in minimally invasive surgery, including laparascopic hysterectomy, hysteroscopic fibroid resection, hysterscopic sterilization (Essure), and hysterscopic endometrial ablation (Novasure).
1019577	Research and clinical interests include clinical trials for Alzheimer?s disease and other forms of dementia, frontotemporal dementia and primary progressive aphasia, changes in cognition associated with aging, rehabilitation of memory and other cognitive disorders. 
1019636	Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, with emphasis on orthognathic surgery,facial reconstruction, facial trauma, surgical correction of obstructive sleep apnea, implant surgery and wisdom tooth removal
1019664	Clinical Pharmacology, Colposcopy, Hysteroscopy, Laparoscopy, Medical termination of pregnancy, Medication use in pregnancy
1019731	My primary clinical interests revolve around neurosurgical anesthesia, management of the difficult airway, and the perioperative stress response.  Other focus centers on patient safety and quality improvement.
1019792	Communication in Medicine, Clinical Skills Teaching, Graduate Medical Education, general medical education
1019797	Sinus problems, chronic sinusitis, sinonasal polyps.<br/>Sinus and nasal skull base tumors.<br/>Computerized image guided sinus and skull base surgery.<br/>Intraoperative CT scanning.<br/>Research:  Better diagnosis and treatment of chronic sinusitis.<br/>Research:  Immunologic basis of chronic sinusitis.<br/>Research:  Clinical and research trials - goal: improved diagnosis and treatment of chronic sinusits.<br/>General otolaryngology.
1019856	We develop single and multi-joint intelligent rehabilitation robotics to diagnose, treat and evaluate neurologicla disorders and musculoskeletal injuries, investigate reflex/non-reflex and dynamic/static factors contributing to impaired motor control, and study injury and compensation mechanisms of pathological knee conditions.
1019882	Primary care internal medicine, Women's healthcare
1019972	My main research interest is the elucidation of molecular mechanisms uderlying cell motility with particular focus on the motile reactions of cardiovascular cells such as vascular endothelial and smooth muscle cells and cardiomyocytes. Another interest related to previous one is to discover and design substances which affect cells motile reactions and which could be applied as the novel therapies to the wide range of diseases where the motile behaviour of cells is compromised. Additionally, my lab is interested in discovery of master genes of cardiomyogenesis that could be used to govern directed differentiation of precursor cells into cardiomyocytes for the sake of therapeutic heart repair.
1020003	Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum
1020163	Mood and anxiety disorders, particularly pregnancy-emergent and postpartum disorders. Forensic psychiatry.
1020213	Stem Cell Transplantation for Pediatric diseases<br/>Minimal residual disease in leukemia<br/>Neuroblastoma and its treatment<br/>Stem Cell differentiation<br/>Tumor vaccines.
1020281	Clinical Interests:<br/>Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus Infections (MRSA), Pertussis (Whooping Cough), Travel Immunizations, International Adoption, Pneumococcal Infections, Antibiotic Resistance<br/>Research Interest:<br/>Dr. Tan?s research interests focus on the epidemiology of pneumococcal infections and antibiotic resistance and is a principal investigator in the U.S. Multicenter Pneumococcal Surveillance Study Group; pertussis disease epidemiology and preventative vaccines; community-acquired methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) infections and the transmission dynamics between pregnant women and their newborn infants (in collaboration with investigators in the Department of OB/GYN, Prentice Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago). She has participated in both vaccine and antibiotic clinical trials as a Principal-Investigator and is also involved in several vaccine survey studies which examine the awareness, acceptance, barriers and utilization of recommended preventative vaccines among healthcare consumers and primary healthcare physicians. These studies are being conducted in collaboration with Dr. Melvin Gerbie in the Department of OB/GYN.
1020328	My work focuses on G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).  This large family of nearly 1000 receptors is responsible for critical signaling components in normal cellular physiology responses such as differentiation, chemotaxis, and apoptosis.  In fact, nearly half the drugs an the market today are directed at members of this important family of receptors.  I study how they signal to the cognate partner, the heterotrimeric G protein using novel tools (ie US patent
6,559,128) as well as other signaling partners such as arrestin.  A key part of my research is directed at allosteric modulators, compounds which can modulate GPCR signaling at a site distinct from the ligand binding site.
1020334	I am interested in the beliefs and behaviors that influence exercise and physical activity decisions of breast cancer survivors. Specifically, I am looking at fear as a barrior to activity and exercise.<br/>Lymphedema, a co-morbility of breast cancer treatment, is another area of interest. I have studied exercise as a risk factor for development of lymphedema and quantitative methods of measuring lymphedema.
1020720	Autonomic nervous system disorders, Electroencephalography, Electromyography
1020738	neurodegeneration, Alzheimer's disease, tau protein, immunohistochemistry, neuropathology, protein structure
1020762	My long-term goal is to obtain knowledge to treat certain types of cancers that show dysregulated HH signaling activities. The first goal is to analyze the transcriptional role of GLI1 in oncogenesis and to identify potential downstream target of human oncogene GLI1 that mediates the oncogenic role of GLI1 in specific cancers. The second goal of my research is to analyze and to identify potential regulators of human oncogene GLI1 that affects the oncogenic role of GLI1 in specific cancers. The third goal of my research is to understand the regulation of GLI1 expression in specific tumors using inhibitors and activators of the SHH-GLI1 signaling pathways for potential treatment of these tumors.
1020837	High risk pregnancies, clinical trials in pregnancy, thrombophilias and pregnancy, obesity and weight gain during pregnancy
1020838	signal transduction, G protein-coupled receptors, ovary, receptor desensitization, phosphorylation,
1020875	Brain tumors / neuro-oncology, Cerebrovascular disorders, Spine diseases
1020945	Diarrheal diseases, Tropical medicine
1020947	My clinical, research and teaching interests center around the treatment of breast diseases and more specifically breast cancer.  
1021011	Preventive medicine, Primary care internal medicine, Women's healthcare
1021028	intestinal failure, liver transplantation, small bowel transplantation
1021035	Infection Control, Antimicrobial Resistance, Data Mining, Infectious diseases, Medical Microbiology, Epidemiology, Emerging Pathogens, Biodefense, Emerging Diagnostics, Molecular Epidemiology
1021074	Endoscopic surgery, Leiomyomas / laser surgery/infertility, Reproductive Surgery
1021148	I see patients in our general endocrinology and thyroid nodule fine needle biopsy clinics. My major research focus is translational breast cancer research in collaboration with my fellowship mentor Dr. Vince Cryns and Professor Sam Stupp?s nanotechology laboratory.
1021232	Hematology, Hematopathology<BR><BR><br/>I am Director of Hematopathology at Feinberg Medical School of Northwestern University and Northwestern Memorial Hospital.
1021239	My primary area of research interest is clinical obstetric anesthesiology, including the effects of labor analgesia on the progress and outcome of labor, specific neuraxial techniques for labor analgesia, and post-cesarean analgesia.
1021275	Islet transplantation, engraftment, tissue engineering, imaging
1021278	Clinical outcomes in Vascular Surgery
1021319	Structural Genomics, X-ray crystallography, Protein-nucleic acid interactions
1021446	Adult congenital heart disease, Echocardiography, Valvular heart disease
1021467	Learning, Biophysics, Neurophysiology, Eyeblink Conditioning, Aging, Hippocampus, Alzheimer's Disease, Potassium Currents, Calcium, fMRI
1021469	Hypertensive emergencies
1021653	parasitology, heart, autoimmunity, microbiology, pathogenesis, disease, tropical, pathology, cytoskeleton <br><br><br/>Molecular Cell Biology of Tropical Parasitic Diseases. Trypanosomes are single-celled parasites that cause human illnesses such as sleeping sickness and Chagas' disease. These organisms have complex life cycles involving both insect and mammalian hosts. The American trypanosome, Trypanosoma cruzi, is transmitted by reduviid bugs and evades the host immune response by penetrating host cells and differentiating into a form that replicates within the host cell cytoplasm. Transitions between the insect vector and the mammalian host are accompanied by complex morphologic and biochemical changes affecting virtually every part of the parasite cell. We are interested in the biogenesis of the mitochondria and flagella in these unique eukaryotic organisms, since these organelles are essential for cell survival as well as targets for the development of antiparasitic drugs. Pathogenesis and Treatment of Inflammatory Heart Disease. 20 million Latin Americans are infected with the American trypanosome Trypanosoma cruzi and approximately 30 percent suffer from Chagas' heart disease. We are testing the hypothesis that immune responses directed toward both parasite antigens and heart antigens (i.e., autoimmunity) contribute to pathogenesis and have developed a mouse model of infection that exhibits both features. Mice develop severe myocarditis several weeks after infection that possesses all of the key features of the human disease, including strong parasite-specific and heart-specific humoral and cellular immunity. The overall objectives of these studies are (i) to elucidate the mechanisms by which parasite infection leads to cardiac inflammation, (ii) to determine the mechanisms by which autoreactive T cells are induced to proliferate and cause heart disease and (iii) to develop novel, immunomodulatory therapies for the treatment of myocarditis.
1021673	Hepatobiliary Surgery, Liver Transplantation, Living Donor Liver Transplant, Pancreatic Surgery
1021688	Anaphylaxis-Clinical updates on epidemiology and pathophysiology<br/>The underarm as an axillary organ and the possible role of antiperspirants in hormone dependent disorders
1021694	My research is focused on ways to improve treatment and outcomes of patients with HIV on antiretroviral therapy.  In particular, I am interested in the epidemiology, outcomes, and pathophysiology of HIV-associated cancers in the U.S. and developing countries.
1021715	I am interested in human movement, particularly those that pertain to rehabilitation. Many of the projects that I?m involved with focus on the biomechanics of able-bodied and pathological gait. Our goal is to better understand normal gait, and to use that knowledge to evaluate and improve the gait of persons who walk with prosthetic or orthotic devices. Results from our work may enable us to develop more functional lower-extremity prosthetic and orthotic components.
1021758	Bone density testing, Musculoskeletal radiology
1021759	Coronary bypass surgery, Pacemakers, Valve repair and replacement
1021762	The research in my lab is centered on the ?espins,? a novel family of multifunctional actin-bundling proteins, and the elucidation of their roles in the organization and function of the actin cytoskeleton of hair cell stereocilia and sensory cell microvilli. Espins are produced in multiple isoforms from a single gene. They are present in the parallel actin bundle of hair cell stereocilia and are the target of mutations that cause deafness and vestibular dysfunction in mice and humans. For example, the jerker frameshift mutation in the espin gene of mice causes recessive hereditary deafness and vestibular dysfunction accompanied by abnormal stereociliary morphogenesis and accelerated stereociliary degeneration. In particular, the stereocilia of jerker homozygotes, which lack espin proteins, fail to increase in diameter, suggesting that espins are required for the appositional growth of the stereociliary parallel actin bundle. Espins are also present at high concentration in the microvilli of taste receptor cells, solitary chemoreceptor cells, vomeronasal sensory neurons and Merkel cells, raising the possibility that these proteins play important, general roles in the microvillar projections of vertebrate sensory cells. Unlike other actin-bundling proteins found in the microvilli and stereocilia of vertebrates, espins are potent actin-bundling proteins that are not inhibited by calcium ion. In addition, espins are unusually effective at over-twisting actin filaments in parallel actin bundles and can do so even at low stoichiometry. In cells, espins efficiently elongate parallel actin bundles and, thereby, help determine the dimensions of microvilli and stereocilia. Espins can also bind actin monomer via their Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome protein homology 2 (WH2) domain in vitro and in vivo and can assemble actin bundles in cells. These biological activities distinguish espins from other actin-bundling proteins and may make them especially well-suited to sensory cells.
1021800	Glaucoma: surgical, laser, and medical treatment outcomes.<br/>Low-pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study (LoGTS)
1021859	General surgical pathology, GI / pancreatic pathology<BR><BR><br/>Experimental: Hepatocarcinogenesis in rats and mice: nongenotoxic models peroxisome proliferator-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. AOX null mice model of spontaneous hepatocarcinogenesis. Study of liver stem cells in rat pancreas. Experimental models of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. <br/>Clinical: Pancreatic tumors: evaluation of prognostic markers. Hepatic tumors: characterization of morphological, phenotypic and prognostic factors. Colonic tumors: characterization of carcinomas arising in inflammatory bowel disease.
1021955	My practice is limited to general obstetrics and gynecology with special interest in the menopause and premalignant conditions of the uterine cervix. 
1021958	Dr. Hammond practices General Obstetrics and Gynecology and also directs the Northwestern Center for Family Planning and Contraception. Subspecialty interests include contraception and abortion among medically compromised patients; first and second trimester medical and surgical abortion; sterilization, including Essure and Adiana Hysteroscopic Sterilizations; gynecologic care of women with HIV; contraception, sterilization and abortion among women with physical and cognitive disabilities. Dr. Hammond's current research focuses on how contraceptives modify transmission of HIV virus.
1021982	Dr. Dunlop is a health services researcher with expertise in statistical methodology.  Her applied research interests include the investigation of physical activity to prevent disability in older adults and to understand the consequences of arthritis and other musculoskeletal disorders.  She co-authored a book on statistical methodology; she has published and applied statistical methods for analyzing longitudinal data.  Dr. Dunlop is the principle investigator on an NIH-funded epidemiologic study on the relationship of physical activity to reduce disability and an NIH-funded study to evaluate the cost effectiveness of a physical activity intervention.<br/>She has served on data safety monitoring boards,  on executive committees of federally funded clinical trials, and on the editorial boards of medical journals.
1021985	sexual function, erection, ejaculation, orgasm, erectile dysfunction, prostate
1022091	Aortic surgery, Maze procedure, Minimally invasive valve surgery, Ross procedure
1022350	Autopsy pathology, Liver and pancreatic pathology<BR><BR><br/>Our current work focuses on the molecular mechanisms responsible for PPAR action. Transcription of specific genes initiated by transcription factors/nuclear receptors is a complex process and involves the participation of multiprotein complexes composed of transcription coactivators. Coactivators contain one or more highly conserved LXXLL (L, leucine; X, any amino acid) motif for direct interaction with AF-2 (activation function 2) region in nuclear receptor.  Our laboratory cloned PBP, PRIP, PIMT, PRIC285 and PRIC320 using either yeast two-hybrid screening or by isolating receptor binding proteins and their identification by MALDI-TOF analysis. We are generating gene knockout mouse models to elucidate the role of these coactivators in the regulation of specific gene transcription. Our work demonstrated that the deletion of PBP, PRIP PIMT and PRIC320  genes in the mouse results in embryonic lethality, indicating that these are vital for development and they alter the function of many nuclear receptors and other transcription factors during critical developmental stages. Recent developments in the area of conditional targeted somatic mutagenesis have opened new avenues for analyzing the physiological functions of coactivator signaling in a variety of tissues and cell types during early development and in the adult.
1022359	As a career pediatric hospitalist, I enjoy all aspects of pediatric care at both academic and community sites.  I have a strong interest in education and development of future hospitalists as the field is developing and exciting.  I have clinical interests in pediatric emergency medicine, inpatient care including ICU, and procedural sedation.
1022425	Medical publishing, Comprehensive care of the adult, Medical decision making, Preventive care
1022554	The Division of Immunotherapy and Autoimmune Diseases (DIAD) is the only center in the world devoted to a unique area of treatment and research utilizing stem cell transplantation in clinical trials for autoimmune diseases and vascular diseases. DIAD pioneered and performed America?s first hematopoietic stem cell transplants to treat: Multiple Sclerosis (MS), Diabetes, Lupus, Crohn?s, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (CIDP), Phemphigus, Dermatomyositis, Devic?s, Myasthenia Gravis, Polymositis and Scleroderma
1022576	Diabetes insipidus, Fluid and electrolyte disorders, Pituitary hypothalamic disease
1022677	My interest is in understanding mechanism of disease. Our approach is gene discovery, animal and cell culture  modeling and therapeutic application in disorders of the nervous system. My specific emphasis is on neurodegenerative  conditions and those affecting the neuromuscular system.<br/>We have focused on amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the spastic parapareses, primary lateral sclerosis and frontal-temporal lobe dementias as protoptypic neurodegenerative disorders. We have identified several gens that cause these disorders and have made  animal models to study their pathogenesis.<br/>In addition I collabotate with colleagues in the study of mitochondrial disorder of muscle and the peripheral neuropathies.
1022758	Diagnostic mycobacteriology, Microbiology / infectious disease
1022771	Asthma, Emphysema, Chronic Bronchitis
1022774	Vascular health including aortic aneurysms,amputation prevention, critical limb ischemia, peripheral vascular surgery, and disorders of the veins (varicose veins and vascular malformations).
1022800	melatonin, dopamine, neuropharmacology, melatonin receptors, signaling, circadian rhythms, depression, sleep, drug discovery, 
1022955	Causes and treatment of attention-deficit-hyperactivity-disorder, learning disabilities, and related disorders in children and adolescents. Utility of the EEG in medical management of ADHD.
1023189	Health services research related to disability and chronic illness; psychosocial aspects of disability
1023190	Dr. Dyer conducts research that focuses on cardiovascular and nutritional epidemiology, particularly the role of nutritional factors in the development of high blood pressure and obesity; prevention and control of overweight and obesity in both adults and children; the development of empirically-based criteria for the diagnosis of gestational diabetes; and assessment of the impact of measurement error and regression dilution bias on associations in observational epidemiologic studies.
1023212	Relationship between employee health risks and medical conditions and direct and indirect medical, disability and productivity costs to an employer
1023232	Molecular docking, enzyme structure and function, structure-based inhibitor discovery, beta-lactamases, protein stability-function tradeoffs, enzyme evolution.
1023239	HIV infection, HIV-1 Vpr, Viral pathogenesis, Cell cycle G2/M control, Viral oncogenesis, Anti-cancer therapy
1023356	Clinical cardiac electrophysiology, Heart rhythm problems
1023528	Stroke recovery and rehabilitation especially in the area of upper limb motor control.  I am interested in the epidemiology of neurorecovery after stroke, genetic markers of recovery and cortical stimulation for motor recovery after stroke.
1023562	role, of, nuclear, lamins, in, transcription, and, DNA, replication
1023575	My clinical interests lie in developmental anomalies, prenatal counseling for fetal anomalies, minimally invasive surgery, endocrine surgery, hernias, undescended testes, inflammatory bowel disease; surgery for tumors or cancers of the neck, chest and abdomen.
1023591	Dr. Sheehan is interested in youth development and community based injury and violence prevention.
1023744	Dr. Matsumura is a practicing vascular surgeon at Northwestern Memorial Hospital and is an Associate Professor of Surgery at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. He is board certified in Surgery with added qualifications in Vascular Surgery.  His clinical interests are centered on endovascular treatment of all aspects of peripheral vascular disease, including carotid stenosis, thoracic aortic disease, lower extremity ischemia, deep venous thrombosis, and abdominal aortic aneurysm.  His research interests are concentrated on clinical trials of endovascular treatment of carotid stenosis and aortic aneurysm. He is involved regularly in the educational curriculum of medical students, residents, and fellows at Northwestern, but also frequently participates in continuing medical education of physicians in practice.  He organizes several educational programs each year and has been involved in the endovascular training of physicians from more than a hundred hospitals around the world. He has published over 65 peer-reviewed articles, 35 chapters, and ten books. 
1023778	My lab focuses on understanding discoordination of the upper limb after stroke, learning the involvement of brain plasticity in recovery, and developing novel neurotherapeutic training programs to enhance motor control of the upper limb even years after a stroke.  Additional research interests involve pharmacological interventions that seek to alter spinal interneuronal bias.
1023834	collagen, nidogen, dystroglycan, extracellular matrix, basement membrane, axon guidance, cell migration, development, C. elegans
1023841	Aesthetic surgery, Breast surgery, Reconstructive microsurgery
1023908	Primary clinical research efforts focus on pediatric onset systemic lupus. Active clinical research projects include development of tools to assess cognitive changes in pediatric lupus, development of best tools to assess disease flare and remission, best practices for treatment of lupus nephritis and development of biomarkers for nephritis and overall disease activity. Other clinical lupus studies have included assessment of corticosteroid therapy practices, assessment of ovarian suppression during treatment with cytotoxic agents, and multicenter studies to identify important genetic risks for pediatric lupus. I participate in studies of the genetics of pediatric arthritis as well as new therapies and phase IV drug registries. I have also participated in vasculitis registries in North America and Europe. Lastly, I have an interest in cost effectiveness and initiatives in health quality of care.
1023922	The epistemology of medicine--how physicians think--and how this affects medical education, professionalism, and patient safety.
1024002	Hepatology - liver
1024003	Dr. Maizels specializes in fetal urology, hypospadias, reflux, urine infection, enuresis, and hydronephrosis.
1024039	stress hypersensitivity, depressive disorders, genetic vulnerability, QTL, neuroendocrinology, hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal, emotional behavioral tests
1024043	Pain medicine
1024091	Dr. Carter's clinical interests cover a range of urologic conditions.<br/>General Urology, urologic cancers, urologic prosthetics, BPH, Stones
1024251	intercellular junctions, adhesion, desmosomes, adherens junctions, signal transduction, cell motility, skin disease, cadherins, cancer metastasis<br><br><br/>Our laboratory is interested in the function and regulation of intercellular<br/>junction molecules in desmosomes and adherens junctions that act to mediate cell-cell adhesion and attachment of the cytoskeleton to the cell surface. Defects in junctional components caused by mutation or post-translational modification result in a variety of pathologies ranging from skin and cardiac disease to cancer. In addition, junction-associated molecules are involved in non-junctional functions such as signaling in development and differentiation. The lab uses a multi-faceted approach to dissect the function of cadherins, armadillo and plakin family junction components including but not limited to collaborative atomic structure determinations, molecular genetics, live cell imaging and trangenic mouse approaches.
1024254	Polysomnography
1024281	Laboratory research focuses on the genetic regulation and phosphorylation of contractile proteins during cardiac development and in ishcemic and stunned heart.
1024369	Antenatal diagnostic testing, Fetal anomaly, High risk pregnancies, Obstetric and gynecologic ultrasound
1024438	Psychosomatic Medicine; Depression and heart disease; Psycho-oncology; Stroke related mood disorder; Multiple Sclerosis related mood disorder; Mood disorders; Anxiety Disorders; Evidence Based Medicine as applied in Psychopharmacology 
1024471	Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, child psychiatric epidemiology
1024477	Circadian rhythm disorders, Insomnia, Nocturnal seizures, Parsomnias, Restless leg, Sleep apnea, Sleep disorders, Snoring and increased upper airways
1024510	pathophysiogy, stroke, spinal cord injury, spinal circuits,biomedical engineering, neural signal processing
1024706	to come
1025014	Nanobiotechnology and Mantle Cell Lymphoma
1025562	1) Neuropsychological assessment of cognitive and memory impairment and changes in mood, behavior, and personality due to a neurologic disorder.
2) Identifying Adult ADHD and psychological difficulties associated with ADHD to assist in treatment planning.
3) Differential diagnosis of psychiatric disorders and identification of individual's strengths and weaknesses to tailor treatment to the needs of the individual patient.
1025760	Bleb leaks and wound revision;<br/>Intraocular pressure testing methods;<br/>Traumatic Hyphemas;<br/>Glaucoma Drainage Devices, patch grafts, and <br/>complications;<br/>Diode Cyclophotocoagulation
1025762	Clinical Interests:<br/>Congenital Infections, Fungal Infections, Kawasaki Disease, and Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus Infections (MRSA);<br/>Research Interest:<br/>Medical Education: I am currently involved in research on professionalism, patient safety, survey design and simulation education for Pediatric medical students
1025764	Kidney / pancreas transplantation, Laparoscopic surgery, Living donor kidney transplant, Vascular access
1025933	The research goal of myself, with the Schnaper lab, is to elucidate a cellular mechanism by which renal fibrosis progress and to seek for potential therapeutic/preventive approach, with focus on molecular mechanisms for function of a fibrogenic cytokine, TGF-&beta;. Due to a pleiotrophic nature of this cytokine, multiple factors other than directly downstream transcription factor, Smad, are involved in its regulation.   I have characterized several of those pathways using cultured kidney epithelial or mesangial cells as model systems. My recent work that connected those signaling events with a function of cellular receptor of the extracellular matrix, integrins, has added a new dimension to the project.  The lab is now applying our previous findings in vitro in a mice model of renal fibrosis. Our recent data (unpublished) show that the renal fibrosis in this model is dependent on both TGF-&beta; and PI3K pathways.  Interestingly, a d isoform of PI3K appears to play a role for podocyte damage, whereas up-regulation of TGF-&beta; followed by the initial podocyte damage mediates fibrotic processes.   These data are critical to further understanding of multiple steps involved to achieve final image of renal fibrosis.
1025958	Interaction of Sleep Disorders and Cardiovascular disease, CHF Disease Management
1025998	Ambulatory anesthesia, Cardiovascular anesthesia, Thoracic anesthesia
1026001	Geriatrics, Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Preventive medicine
1026204	Although I see patients with a variety of endocrine conditions (including growth and thyroid disorders, diabetes), my clinical interests specifically include pubertal disorders, adrenal disorders, PCOS
1026219	The role of PTH and thyroid hormone in cell proliferation
1026346	neonatology
1026364	Science outreach, scientific literacy
1026377	At present, my research program focuses on assessment and rehabilitation of cognitive impairment in brain injury. Current funded projects include the following.
1) A clinical trial of a virtual reality treatment protocol for patients with brain injury.
2) Examinations of interventions for sleep disorders in patients with brain injury.
3) A study of the validity of instruments for assessment of brain injury and posttraumatic stress disorder.
1026382	Body imaging, Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), Fast magnetic resonance imaging, Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), Neuroradiology
1026388	Clinical interests include the care of children with growth disorders, disorders of puberty, adrenal disorders and the care of children with long-term endocrine sequelae of cancer treatment and brain tumors.
1026394	Blending an in depth psychological approach with appropriate psych meds, only as needed
1026398	Dr. Whitington is involved in translational research utilizing animal and cell-based models and molecular approaches to understand the immune mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of neonatal hemochromatosis and biliary atresia. He is also interested in hepatocyte 'survival' cell signaling involved in nutrient sensing and fatty liver disease and in the protective response to cholestasis.
1026407	Research activities of our group focus on two major clinical areas: musculoskeletal pain and bone.  In the area of musculoskeletal pain, the development and characterization of analgesic agents for the management of osteoarthritis has been a major focus for over the past decade.  We have helped design and implement phase 2 studies of many of the major classes of drugs currently in use, including NSAIDs, cox-2 selective inhibitors, opioids, topical analgesic agents and novel approaches to pain including antibodies to NGF (nerve growth factor) and other agents active on the peripheral nervous system.  In the areas of chronic low back pain and osteoarthritis, our group has worked closely with Dr. A. Vania Apkarian in the Department of Physiology to describe and understand spontaneous chronic pain with a particular focus of the role of the cerebral cortex.  Current NIH-funded studies are evaluating the transition that occurs in some individuals who progress from acute to chronic pain in order to understand the changes that occur with the hope of eventually being able to modulate cortical activity to produce better clinical outcomes.<br/>Bone loss is known to be a major problem for individuals with disabilities, particularly those who are not able to ambulate or bear weight normally.  Our group has initiated studies aimed at treating patients with acute spinal cord injury to attempt to maintain bone mass during their immediate post-injury period.  In those individuals with SCI who have already lost significant bone mass, we have undertaken a second set of studies aimed at evaluating approaches to increase bone mass in these individuals, using physical and pharmacological interventions.
1026407	Research interests focus on the development and evaluation of new therapeutics for the treatment of osteoarthritis, osteoporosis and pain through clinical trials in phases I-IV.  These studies include both investigator- and industry-initiated investigations and are funded by NIH and industry sources.  
1026444	In vitro fertilization, Infertility
1026447	computational neuroscience, information processing, complex systems, neuronal code, systems neuroscience 
1026461	I am interested primarily in school health issues and those that affect children and adolescents.
1026590	Hand and upper extremity conditions (shoulder, elbow, forearm, wrist, and hand).
1026870	Primary research interests involve:  caregiver stress, psychosocial adjustment to chronic illness and disability, men's health, stroke and brain injury, aging<br/>Clinical assignments include:  stroke, pulmonary rehab, brain injury
1026925	Brain tumors / neuro-oncology, Spine diseases, Stereotactic radiosurgery
1027058	Utilizing minimally invasive techniques to treat spine disease including degenerative, trauma, tumor and deformity.  Development of new techniques to facilitate minimally invasive spine access.  Treatment of spinal cord injury.
1027156	Clinical microbiology, General infectious disease, Transplant infectious disease
1027175	Asthma, Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, Pulmonary embolism, Sarcoidosis
1027175	Dr. Budinger's laboratory is interested in the mechanisms by which oxidant stress activates signaling pathways in the lung. A particular area of interest is the mechanisms by which oxidants generated in response to exposure to airborne particulate matter air pollution activates signaling pathways in the lung that might contribute to particle related morbidity and mortality.
1027212	...
1027224	Obstetric, Gynecologic and Ambulatory Anesthesia
1027227	My clinical research focuses on three areas:
1.  Hospital epidemiology
2.  Antimicrobial resistance, especially in    immunocompromised patients
3.  Emergency preparedness for emerging pathogens and those with bioterrorism potential. 
1027227	Opportunistic infections, Transplant infectious disease
1027269	We are in the process with NCQA of starting a Patient-Centered Medical Home demonstration project within Northwestern Memorial Physicians Group at our internal medicine office site.
1027396	My research focuses on sensorimotor control of the hand and its rehabilitation following neuromuscular injury, such as stroke.  Toward this end, my research group and I are pursuing three interdependent lines of research in the Coleman Hand Rehabilitation Laboratory: description of hand neuromechanics, quantification of the mechanisms of hand impairment following stroke, and the development of mechatronic devices for hand therapy following stroke.
1027416	Blood group isoimmunization, Fetal anomaly, Hypertension in pregnancy, Prenatal diagnosis
1027425	Movement Science, Balance, Aging, Parkinson's Disease, Functional Outcomes, Cultural Competence
1027426	Bladder drop, Gynecologic surgery, Laparoscopic surgery, Minimally invasive surgery, Special female pelvic surgery, Urinary incontinence, Urogynecology, Vaginal hysterectomy, Vaginal prolapse, Vaginal repair
1027428	High Impact Education Dissemination; <br/>Palliative and End-of-life Care Research; <br/>Geriatrics and Aging Research; <br/>Patient Safety; <br/>Family Caregiver Education; <br/>Economic Resilience for Caregivers
1027443	The Bohn lab is developing gene and stem cell therapies for Parkinson?s disease (PD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)using experimental rodent models of these diseases. Previous studies  focused on gene therapy with the neurotrophic factor, glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) which the group has shown slows the progression of dopamine neuron loss in rat models of PD.  A phase I clinical trial testing GDNF gene therapy will commence soon. The lab is currently studying viral vector mediated gene silencing of alpha-synuclein, a gene linked to familiar forms of Parkinson?s disease.  In addition, the lab is generating neuroprogenitor-like cells and neurospheres from rat and mouse bone marrow and determining whether this interesting source of stem cells can be developed as a novel therapy for PD.  Studies of the effects of rat bone marrow derived neurospheres are also being tested for effects on traumatic brain injury.  Viral vectors harboring neurotrophic factors are also being made for studies aimed at reversing aging of dopamine neurons in rat hypothalamus and targeting upper motoneurons in mouse models of ALS.  The experimental approaches in the lab are multi-faceted and employ techniques ranging from making viral vectors to molecular and morphometric assays  to behavioral testing.
1027447	My primary clinical interest is to use minimally invasive magnetic resonance imaging techniques to guide and monitor localized treatment of tumors, especially for liver and pancreatic cancer. I have an active laboratory that has translated a number of developments from our animal lab to the clinical arena.
1027497	Autoimmune skin diseases, Non - melanoma skin cancer, Psoriasis
1027734	Diagnostic ultrasound, Fetal anomaly, High risk pregnancies
1027926	Research interests include neurodevelopmental correlates of craniosynostosis, quality of life for individuals with cleft and craniofacial conditions, and correlates of learning disabilities in children with cleft lip and palate.  I am part of a multi-disciplinary, multi-site research team that is following a cohert of children born with a single suture craniosynostosis and controls who do not have this condition.  With NIH funding, we have evaluated these children at diagnosis, 18 months, 3 years and are beginning a 7-year-old evaluation.  <br/>Differences in facial appearance affect social and emotional development in children with orofacial clefts and other craniofacial conditions.  I am investigating the impact of these conditions, stigma, and quality of life.
1027933	Dr. Cryns is an endocrinologist whose research focuses on the genes and signaling pathways that cause breast cancer. The overall goal of his research is to translate molecular insights into better therapies and prognostic markers for breast cancer patients. 
1027933	Dr. Cryns leads a multidisciplinary team of scientists who focus on understanding how cells die. His group is especially interested in elucidating how abnormalities in cell death contribute to the pathogenesis of breast cancer and in translating these insights into improved predictive markers and therapies. He is also founding Director of the SUCCEED Breast Cancer Survivorship Program at Northwestern, an innovative clinical program that provides personalized health care for breast cancer survivors.
1027947	Co-Director of Clinical Education Center:  Fostering innovative ways to improve clinical skills of our medical students and use of technology to enhance clinical skills.<br/>Clinical Practice:  Diagnositic dilemmas, health promotion
1027947	Comprehensive care of adults, Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Medical consultations and diagnostic dilemmas
1027951	I am a board certified pathologist with subspeciality certification in cytopathology. My primary intereststs are  gynecologic cytology, fine nedle aspiration of head & neck/thyroid, breast, and general cytopathology. Advocacy for cytopathology and women in medicine as well as medical education are my other interests. I am active in organized medicine and have leadership roles in many national and international cytopathology/pathology organizations. I teach at the local, national and international levels.
1028063	cytoskeleton, myosin phosphorylation, self-assembly, cell motility, signal transduction
1028321	Ancillary techniques, Cytopathology, Pulmonary pathology
1028424	Our group studies the structural basis for interactions between proteins, and between proteins and small molecules, that play important roles cell biology.  We have focused on the GTPases of the Signal Recognition Particle (SRP), Ffh and FtsY, currently seeking to understand the structural basis for regulation of the assembly of their heterodimeric targeting complex. Our lab is also initiating a proposal to determine the structures of novel members of the trypanosome surface coat proteins (VSGs).
1028426	Nucleolus, nucleus, chromatin, nuclear structure and function, cancer, growth-regulations, signal-transductions,
1028607	Care of adults with a history of childhood cancer, Preventive medicine
1028619	Genetic counseling; informed consent for genetic testing; medical decision-making, health care communication, ethics, specifically around areas of genetic testing and research. 
1028771	Current research activity is focused upon the psychological functioning of children and adolescents with HIV infection/AIDS, risk behavior in adolescents with HIV exposure/HIV infection, and individual and psychosocial factors mediating HIV medication adherence. 
1029113	Musculoskeletal imaging
1029130	epithelial cells, membrane traffic, GPCR, arrestins, epithelial polarity, mucosal biology, mucosal inflammation, apoptosis
1029134	My primary research interest is in health outcomes following pediatric liver transplantation and acute liver failure.  I lead a research group that studies all aspects of outcomes from survival to health related quality of life (HRQOL).  The largest current projects examine HRQOL and cognitive outcomes in pediatric liver transplant survivors, long term complications related to immunosuppressive medications and the causes and treatment of acute liver failure.
1029137	I have a strong interest in medical ethics, especially ethical issues in pediatrics, end-of-life care, research on human subjects, transplantation, children with disorders of sex development (DSD) , medical and surgical innovation, and conscientious objection to requested care by health care professionals.  My main clinical interests are in pediatric palliative and hospice care, multidisciplinary care of children with DSD and parent support for difficult decisions under conditions of uncertainty.
1029164	Primary research interests are in adult and pediatric genito-urinary and CNS cancers including prostate cancer, Wilms tumor and brain tumors. The other areas of interest include development of novel therapies for recurrent tumors including prostate, brain and neuroblastoma. Radiosurgery, hyperthermia,intra-operative radiation therapy, brachytherapy, novel IMRT techniques and nanoparticle-mediated delivery of novel radiosensitizing therapy are areas of ongoing clinical and basic research.
1029324	Adolescent gynecology, Colposcopy, Menopause
1029833	I am both a clinician and a researcher as well as an educator. I am interested in studying the impact of chronic illness on the adaptation and coping of children, adolescents and their families. I am also interested in the area of transitioning from pediatric to adult care among youth with chronic illness.
1030012	fluorescence microscopy, live cell imaging, endothelial cell, 3D vasculature enogineering, tumor-endothelial interaction, hemodynamics.
1030041	Dr Kuiken?s research group is working developing bionic technologies to improve the function of artificial limbs for people with very proximal amputations.  The main research focus of the lab is developing a technique using nerve transfers to improve of myoelectric prosthesis control called ?targeted reinnervation?.  By transferring the residual arm nerves in an upper limb amputee to spare regions of muscle it is possible to make new signals for the control of robotic arms. This allows simultaneous control of multiple joints in a natural way.  The procedure has been very successful in patients with increases in speed of 50- 500%. Similarly, hand sensation nerves can be directed to reinnervate spare skin in or near the residual limb so that when this skin is touched, the amputee feels like their missing hand is being touched including light touch, graded pressure hot/cold, sharp/dull and vibration. This is an exciting pathway to producing true sensory feedback to amputees from their prosthesis.
1030273	I work with trauma and mental illness in children's mental health, juvenile justice, child welfare and education programs.  As Clinical Director of the Illinois Childhood Trauma Coalition we are focusing on developing a statewide system of care with appropriate professional development to address child trauma.  Within research, we are looking at children in the public sector who suffer from complex trauma and attempting to understand what treatments are effective with these children.  We are also engaged in supporting a movement to include a developmental trauma disorder diagnosis in DSM-V.
1030597	Primary research interest involves identifying key molecule pathways (e.g. TLRs signaling pathways) leading to allograft rejection following organ transplantation using small animal transplant models.
1030626	Forensic Neuropsychology<br/>Traumatic Brain Injury<br/>Postconcussion Syndrome<br/>Posttraumatic Stress Disorder<br/>Violent Behavior
1030644	Prostate cancer, angiogenesis inhibitors, PEDF, TSP
1030765	CT,MRI, Image processing, Oncologic imaging, Abdominal imaging, Cardiac imaging.
1030810	Fitness, Nutrition and Weight Management, Medical care of the obese patient, Preventive medicine
1030810	Obesity, nutrition and lifestyle clinical care; clincal research in diet, body composition and weight mangement methods; and medical education in nutrition and lifestyle medicine
1031011	My primary research is in the field of biostatistics with particular emphasis in the areas of 1) longitudinal data analysis, 2) generalized linear and nonlinear mixed-effects models and 3) outcomes research as it pertains to survival analysis and causal inference.
1031152	The focus of the work in my lab is directed towards the understanding of neuromusculoskeletal control during active movement in persons with brain injury.  In particular, studies seek to understand the control mechanisms underlying locomotor behavior in persons with post-stroke hemiplegia.  Related to this objective, the work is attempting to understand underlying mechanisms of poor control and to develop quantitative evaluation and intervention tools for the amelioration of locomotor deficits post-stroke.  The experimental approach includes measurement of electrical muscle activity, lower limb force and movement trajectories, and electro-physiological reflex testing during cyclical locomotor movements such as walking and pedaling.
1031187	Clinical interests include diagnosis and treatment of kidney diseases, hypertension, acute and chronic kidney failure, and management of patients on dialysis.
1031217	CLINICAL NEONATOLOGY
1031304	My research focuses on spinal motor-system. I am interested in the interaction between pre-motor interneurons and motoneurons; the synaptic plasticity of motoneurons for peripheral and brainstem descending pathways; and the mechanisms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).  Using a root recording system I developed for mouse spinal cord study, I have demonstrated the existence of two forms of short-term plasticity in the spinal motoneurons in response to different source of synaptic inputs. Further studies in this direction will move toward the cellular level to understand their pre- and post-synaptic mechanisms.  In an animal model of ALS (mSOD1 mouse), I have found that NMDA receptors in the spinal interneurons might be an important component contributing to motoneurons' excitotoxicity. Further studies will apply intracellular recording and calcium image techniques to answer that through what ions, channels and/or receptors the interneurons interact with motoneurons in mSOD1 mouse in order to determine new therapeutic targets for this disease.
1031423	My primary clinical interest is the field of Thoracic Imaging.  Within the field, imaging of lung cancer and imaging of pulmonary embolism are particular interests.<br/>My primary research interest at this time is lung cancer screening.  I am one of the Investigators for the National Lung Screening Trial (NLST), an ongoing multi-institutional trial funded by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to try to determine if lung cancer screening decreases lung cancer mortality.  For more information on NLST, see www.ACRIN.org.
1031537	Medical disorders of the breast, Woman's health
1031630	Dr. Pinski practices general and cosmetic dermatology. He has a particular interest in facial rejuvenation with Botox, filler substances and liposuction. He is also a national instructor for Botox, Restylane and Juvederm.
1031667	I have just written a book on psychiatry, 'The Origin of Symptoms': cultural aspects, clinical intensive pschotherapy case studies, the brain, genetics overview ( review of journals), animal studies. My interests are pschoanalytic.
1031759	Lasik surgery, Ophthalmic plastic surgery, Refractive surgery, Refractive surgery
1031800	I am currently searching for new and innovative methods for incorporation in the teaching of residents and medical students. In addition to teaching the science and the art of medicine, it is incumbent upon us, as faculty, to lead the way in providing service to community and to those who are less fortunate.    
1031839	Psychotherapy, child psychopharmacotherapy and school consultation.
1031841	Developmental Disabilities (Clinical)
1031869	Dr Reid?s research interests are aimed at gaining a greater understanding of the relationship between the sleep and circadian systems with health and safety. Current research areas include, understanding the basis and treatment of circadian rhythm sleep disorders, the effects of sleep loss on performance and safety, and the relationship between sleep and risk for metabolic and cardiovascular disease.  Dr Reid also has extensive experience in the study of the impact of shift work on sleep, performance and health in the workplace. 
1032015	Gynecologic infections, Menopause, Vaginal problems, Vulvar problems
1032029	Breast Imaging: mammography, ultrasound, MRI<br/>Breast Image-guided procedures
1032035	Breast imaging, Digital mammography, Radial scars
1032062	My research is focused on the mechanisms underlying Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia. This pursuit employs a combination of electrophysiological, optical, genetic and behavioral approaches.
1032088	Biomedical signal processing, cardiac arrhythmias, computer modeling
1032158	Interventional Oncology offers various treatment therapies to cancer patients using minimally invasive angiographic techniques and treatment options at various stages in cancer treatment. These treatments may be used alone, in combination, or in conjunction with standard of care cancer treatments such as chemotherapy and radiation, as a palliative treatment, or may be used as a bridge to organ transplantation
1032326	magnetic resonance imaging, cardiovascular imaging, technical developments, heart, interventional, coronary artery disease, oxygenation,contrast agent, angiography,perfusion
1032446	Dr. Brian Helfand is a research assistant professor in the Department of Urology.  He completed his MD/PhD at Northwestern University and is continuing with his clinical education in urology.  His research focus is directed towards identifying the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying prostate cancer.  Specifically, he is interested in the changes in both the cytoskeletal and nucleoskeletal intermediate filament proteins which promote metastases and disease progression.  In addition, he is focused upon elucidating the mechanisms by which intermediate filaments control the expression of DNA (transcription) and their combined influence on cell behavior.
1032461	Integrin regulation of proteases in oral keratinocytes (special focus on urokinase receptor-integrin interaction and consequent intracellular signaling events). Effects of altered expression of proteases on tumorigenecity/invasion of oral cancer.
1032738	Fetal Brain Injury, Oxidants, Neuroprotection, Cerebral Palsy, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome
1032739	Acute coronary care, Coronary angioplasty, stenting, and atherectomy, General cardiology, Peripheral vascular interventions
1032743	Abdominal aortic aneurysms, Angio / stents, Endovascular, Extracranial cerebrovascular disease
1032869	Body imaging
1032893	Cardiac rehabilitation, Echocardiography, Vascular biology
1032940	Integrated systems, Neuroanatomy, respiration, amygdala, basal ganglia, cerebellum, 
1032946	Acute renal failure, Pre and end stage renal disease care
1033130	Glycolipid and cell behavior/skin cancers.
1033185	Dr. Hirano is Associate Professor of Medicine and Director of the Gastroenterology and Hepatology Fellowship Program at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.  He attended medical school at the University of Pennsylvania and completed his medical residency and GI fellowship at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He took a faculty position at Harvard Medical School working in esophageal physiology before coming to Northwestern in 1998. His academic interests focus on eosinophilic esophagitis and swallowing, motility,  and esophageal disorders.
1033185	Eosinophilic Esophagitis, Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis, Esophageal motility disorders, Gastroesophageal reflux disease, Swallowing disorders
1033220	Clinical research<br/>Development of devices facilitating the plastic surgery field
1033261	From 1987-1997, I built a clinical service and research program at Rush University with an emphasis on quality of life and outcome evaluation in cancer treatment research.  I developed and am continually refining the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) Measurement System for outcome evaluation in patients with chronic medical conditions.<br/>I have focused my career studying questions regarding quality of life measurement in clinical trials, cross-cultural equivalence of quality of life measurement, efficacy of psychosocial interventions in oncology, and medical outcomes research. I am the principal investigator of the statistical coordinating center for the NIH Roadmap Initiative to build a Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS). I am also the principal investigator of a contract to develop item banks for the clinical trials supported by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.
1033359	informed consent in the clinical arena, health policy development, classificatory theory, medical education and patient safety research
1033423	Building And Re-Building Of Limbs And Hearts. The Simon Laboratory has identified regulartory genes that play key roles in limb development in virtually all vertebrates, including humans. Surprisingly, these genes are also critical for the shaping of the heart during embryogenesis and when mutated in humans, they lead to birth defects of the arms and heart. Using zebrafish, chicken, and mouse models, the lab tries to gain a deeper understanding of common genetic pathways in limb and heart development and disease. In addition to these developmental studies, the lab is interested in discovering the genes that are involved in regenerative processes. As models for these investigations, zebrafish and newts are employed, which can regenerate limbs and heart ventricles throughout their life times. The identification of genetic pathways that are operational in these regenerating species but not in mammals, will provide new insights how to restore regenerative abilities in non-regenerating species including humans.
1033629	Chemotherapy induced neuropathy, Neuropathy, Muscle disease, Myasthenia gravis, Electrophysiology in peripheral nervous system diseases.
1033859	Dr. Rudick?s research focuses on characterizing the peripheral and central (spinal cord and brain) neuronal mechanisms of acute and chronic pain in interstitial cystitis, chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome and urinary tract infection.  Dr. Rudick is currently investigating the transition from acute pain to chronic pain and developing novel therapies to treat both acute and chronic pain associated with the urinary tract.
1034109	biomedical communications, biomedical policy, biomedical literacy, health literacy, scientific literacy, cancer communications, public health communications, information technologies, multivariate analysis
1034453	Our group seeks to elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which human prostate cancer cells regulate motility (and thus ultimately metastasis), to identify new drugs which target regulatory elements, and to evaluate their efficacy in humans.  Studies employ basic cell and molecular biology based investigations, animal models of metastasis, and early phase clinical trials involving cell and molecular based endpoints.  A central focus is upon the role of transforming growth factor beta (TGFb) associated signaling members.  Through these studies we have been able to link TGFb super family receptors, Smad proteins, members of the p38 MAP kinase signaling pathway, small heat shock proteins (in particular, HSP27), and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), into an inter-linked regulatory network within the cell, which together regulates cell motility, invasion, and metastasis.  We have identified a lead compound that effectively blocks activation of the key regulatory elements.  Our lead compound inhibits metastasis in murine orthotopic models, was well tolerated in human phase I trials, and demonstrates mechanistically relevant cell and molecular efficacy in phase II human trials.  
1034453	Phase 1 & 2 clinical trials, Prostate cancer
1034459	Development and validation of instruments to measure quality of life and rehabilitation outcomes
1034616	Dr De Plaen?s research focuses on the developmental aspects of the inflammatory mechanisms contributing to necrotizing enterocolitis, a devastating disease of the premature infant, causing sudden bowel inflammation and necrosis.  
1034656	A major pediatric research priority and the long-term goal of my laboratory is the identification of the etiology and pathogenesis of Kawasaki Disease (KD), the leading cause of acquired heart disease in children in developed nations. KD can result in coronary artery aneurysm (CAA) formation with resultant myocardial infarction and/or sudden death. Clinical and epidemiologic data are consistent with an infectious cause of KD, but conventional methods have not yielded the etiologic agent. We discovered that oligoclonal IgA plasma cells, CD8 T lymphocytes, and macrophages infiltrate CAA and other tissues in acute KD, indicating an antigen-driven response to an intracellular pathogen, such as a virus, with a mucosal portal of entry. We made oligoclonal KD antibodies in vitro and used them as tools to identify their target antigens. Immunohistochemistry revealed that KD synthetic antibodies detected antigen in acute KD but not control bronchial epithelium and in a subset of macrophages in acute inflamed KD tissues. In acute KD ciliated bronchial epithelium, antigen localized to distinctive perinuclear intracytoplasmic spheroids. Light and electron microscopy revealed that the spheroids in ciliated bronchial epithelium were cytoplasmic inclusion bodies (CIB). The CIB were most consistent with aggregates of protein and associated nucleic acid and likely derive from the KD etiologic agent. These data support the hypothesis that the KD agent enters via the respiratory tract, infects bronchial epithelium, and travels in macrophages to targeted tissues including coronary arteries, with antigen-specific IgA plasma cells and other inflammatory cells entering the tissues to combat the pathogen and resulting in tissue damage. The presence of CIB consistent with aggregates of microbial, likely viral, proteins and nucleic acids in acute KD lung provides a structural and molecular footprint that could lead to identification of the KD etiologic agent.
1034762	<BR><BR><br/>My research work is focused on studying the mechanisms that regulate the transcriptional activities of nuclear receptors. Nuclear receptors constitute a large superfamily of transcription factors that regulate a diverse array of biological processes, including development and neoplasia, as well as energy and xenobiotic metabolism. In order to initiate transcription, some more factors are required to interact with nuclear receptors and to regulate their activities. These factors are collectively called 'nuclear receptor co-factors'. Several co-factors have been identified by our studies. Generating mouse models using gene targeting technology to investigate the functions of these genes is in process.
1035505	retrovirus replication, reverse transcription, integration, virus assembly mechanisms, molecular genetics
1035506	Primary Research Interest: Gene Regulatory and microRNA networks during neural tube development<br/>Clinical Research Interest: Biomarker discovery and validation in Spina Bifida.
1035648	Dr. Holly Falk-Krzesinski is the Director of the Office for Research Development.  In this position, Dr. Falk-Krzesinski and her team support and advance faculty research and the Northwestern's collective research enterprise through strategic alignment of vision, priorities, capabilities, and opportunities to enable pursuit of large, multi- and interdisciplinary research initiatives that garner national and international recognition.  Dr. Falk-Krzesinski specifically focuses on life and biomedical sciences initiatives and works closely with five of the research schools: arts & sciences, engineering, communication, education & social policy, and medicine.  As Director, Office for Research Development, Dr. Falk-Krzesinski has successfully catalyzed and fostered a number of major multi- and interdisciplinary research projects:<br>The NIAID-funded contract award for a large-scale Structural Genomics Center of Infectious Diseases is a Center that applies state-of-the-art high-throughput structural biology technologies to experimentally characterize the three-dimensional atomic structure of targeted proteins from pathogens in the NIAID Category A-C priority lists and organisms causing emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases.  The Center provides a high throughput pipeline for structure determination that will carry out all steps of the process from target selection through structure deposition and will determine over 375 structures during the five-year period of the contract.  This initiative strengthened the partnership with the Advanced Photon Source and structural biologists at Argonne National Laboratory.<br/><br>The NCI-funded Nanomaterials for Cancer Diagnostics and Therapeutics Center for Cancer Nanotechnology Excellence (CCNE) that advances nanotechnology as a critical driver of advances in oncology and cancer research leading to near-term benefits for patients. The new Center capitalizes on the very strong partnership between the University's International Institute for Nanotechnology and the medical school's Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center. <br/><br>The Oncofertility Consortium: Fertility Preservation for Women, a program through the NIH Roadmap for Medical Research Interdisciplinary Research Consortium initiative.  The inter-institutional consortium is a framework into which new discipline of oncofertility will be fostered  to create new knowledge about the process of ovarian follicle development and provide the medical solution to fertility preservation for women with a fertility-altering cancer diagnosis.<br/><br>The Regenerative Medicine Training Program, an interdisciplinary research training program of the NIH Roadmap for Medical Research Training for a New Interdisciplinary Workforce initiative.  The training program is for pre- and postdoctoral trainees and provides integrated training in the physical sciences, life sciences, and engineering with the goal of creating a new generation of scientists in regenerative medicine who can focus on overcoming the obstacles to developing techniques for repairing or regenerating damaged tissues and organs. <br/><br>Participated as a co-organizer and engaging Northwestern faculty to participate in the regional partnership to bring university and industry research together: Catalyzing Collaboration between Industry and Academia in the Life Sciences' Neurodegenerative Medicine, Regenerative Medicine/Stem Cell Biology, and Womens Health Research.<br/><br>The NIDDK-funded NIH Islet Cell Resource as the lynchpin activity of the Chicago Islet Consortium, which Northwestern University, the University of Chicago, and the University of Illinois at Chicago comprise.  The overall goal of the Resource is to advance the field of human islet isolation for basic research and clinical transplantation.?.TRUNCATED
1035648	Holly Falk-Krzesinski, PhD, is a Research Assistant Professor and the Director of Research Team Support & Development at the Northwestern University Clinical and Translational Science (NUCATS) Institute.  Dr. Falk-Krzesinski focuses on the praxis of team science, the practical aspects of science performed in teams, and how it is informed by the science of team science (SciTS), the empirical research on scientific teams.  Her activities include navigation, enhancement, and support for clinical and translational collaboration, cross-disciplinary research, and research teams and research development for collaborative opportunities.  Dr. Falk-Krzesinski teaches a new graduate-level Team Science course at Northwestern and offers Collaborative Funding & Team Science webinars nationally.  Dr. Falk-Krzesinski also serves as the Chair of the Annual International Science of Team Science (SciTS) Conference in Chicago, through which she is working to develop a strong, interdisciplinary community of practice for team science and SciTS.  <br/>In 2008, Dr. Falk-Krzesinski launched a national network of research development professionals, which evolved into the National Organization of Research Development Professionals (NORDP).  She currently serves as the NORDP?s founding president. <br/>**Research Development, Science of Team Science, SciTS, Team Science, Team Research, Praxis of Team Science, Multidisciplinary Research, Interdisciplinary Research, Transdisciplinary Research , Cross-disciplinary Research, Translational Research, Collaboration, Science of Team Science, Scientific Teams, Knowledge Teams
1035946	Samuel Stupp's research is focused on self-assembly and supramolecular materials with special emphasis in regenerative medicine, organic electronics, solar energy, and cancer therapies.
1036098	Traumatic Brain Injury, Outcomes, Measurement, Assistive Technology
1036144	My primary clinical and research interests lie in pediatric body imaging, especially CT and MRI with a specialty interest in cardiovascular imaging.
1036213	Rheumatoid arthritis, Scleroderma, Systemic lupus, Vasculitis, Wegener's Granulomatosis
1036243	Diagnostic ultrasound (obstetrics and gynecology), Fetal anomaly, High risk pregnancies
1036557	Dr. Epstein?s laboratory is engaged in the study of the impact of viral infections on the developing nervous system.  Currently we are investigating the role of Human Herpesvirus 6, and 7 (HHV-6 and HHV-7) as potential causes of hippocampal injury during febrile status epilpepticus (FSE).  Dr. Epstein is a co-investigator and the study neurovirologist for the ten year NINDS funded multicenter longitudinal FEBSTAT study of  200 children with FSE.   To date we have found that HHV-6B is the most common cause of FSE in children accounting for nearly 30% of the infants that present with FSE.  This longitudinal study will allow us to determine if FSE caused by HHV-6B or HHV-7 is more likely to result in mesial temporal sclerosis and temporal lobe seizures.  Intractable temporal lobe seizures are the most common reason for epilepsy surgery in adolescents and young adults.   If  HHV-6B or HHV-7 prove to be responsible for hippocampal damage it is possible that the injury could be prevented by treatment with anti-viral or anti-infammatory medications at the time of presentation with FSE.
1036558	Acute lung injury and the impact of mechanical ventilation on the injured lung have been a central focus of my laboratory work.  Particular attention to free radical production and inflammation are important are of interest.  The impact of critical illness on the metabolic response of young children has been a persistent interest of mine.
1036566	Current main research interests include: (1) patient safety, primarily risk assessment and in-situ simulation to improve team work and communication in pediatrics, obstetrics, transplant surgery, and family planning; (2) National Children's Study: child health outcomes; (3) healthcare quality indicators pediatric); (4) role of chronic stress in premature labor; (4) contribution of clinician and system factors to clinician-initiated deliveries; (5) prevalence and severity of food allergy and health services.
1036593	Complex dermatological cases, Cutaneous infectious disorders, General dermatology
1036661	Chemical pathology<BR><BR><br/>Plasma lipoprotein metabolism and the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
1036691	Breast cancer, General Oncology
1036692	Placenta, Perinatal outcomes, Hypoxia, Angiogenesis
1036702	Benign hematology, Disorders of thrombosis and hemostasis
1036707	Cell signaling and breast cancer progression;<br/>Molecular staging of breast cancer;<br/>Fertility preservation for young patients with cancer;<br/>Impact of fertility treatment on mammary gland 
1036743	Colon cancer, Esophagus cancer, Gastric cancer, Hepatocellular cancer, Pancreas cancer, Rectal cancer
1036746	Specializing in the non-operative management of musculoskeletal conditions, joint injections, spinal injection.  Research interests include outcomes of spinal injections 
1036775	Swallowing Disorders, GERD, Surgical complications and General GI
1036779	High Fidelity Simulation, Virtual reality, Advanced Technologies in Medical Education
1036796	Cardiac imaging, Diabetes mellitus, Kidney failure
1036807	Research and clinical interests of the role of non-invasive cardiovascular imaging in acute coronary syndromes, coronary artery disease, ischemic and structural heart disease, and pre-operative cardiac evaluation. Specific focus on nuclear cardiology and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging.
1036807	Research in the noninvasive clinical utility of cardiac magnetic resonance and nuclear cardiology in the treatment, diagnosis and management of patients with cardiovascular disease.
1036812	Incontinence, Neurogenic bladder, Complex voiding dysfunction, Pelvic reconstruction
1036816	We are involved in a variety of bimomechanical research projects in order to compare and optimize the biomechanics of fracture fixation. I am also collaborating with Sam Stupp at IBNAM looking at ways to enhance bone regeneration in a traumatic defect animal model using nanotechnology.
1036821	1 I am currently enrolling patients in a study on cerebral oximetery in the ICU & IR suite. 
2 I have a special interest in ARDS (Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome). <br/>I have given lectures and have written book chapters on this topic. <br/>No present investigations are actually in place. 
3 I will be interrogating our intubation outside of the OR database regarding impact of re-intubation: incidence, risk factors and secundary copmlications inn our institution (compared to other hospital series). 
4 I have a special interest in the future of video laryngoscopy outside of the OR.
5 We will initiate a study on incidence of blood transfusion during TIPPS (trans-jugular intra-hepatic porto-systemic shunt: a procedure done by interventional radiologists in patients sufffering from severe liver disease / cirrhosis). 
6 Markers of Bacteruial Meningitis.
1036822	My  interests include defining the non-medical influences that may be affecting clinician decision-making, specifically as it applies to late preterm birth.  <br/>Another set of projects are within the Children's Hospital Neonatal Consortium (CHNC), an organization dedicated to improving care and outcomes for infants in Children?s Hospital NICU?s through sharing of data, information  and ideas for benchmarking, research, and development of safety and quality improvement initiatives.  These projects are underway in close collaboration with Child Health Corporation of  America (CHCA).
1036826	Allergic rhinitis, Angioedema, Asthma, Drug allergy, Idiopathic anaphylaxis, sinusitis, Urticaria
1036826	My main research interest is in the subject of chronic rhinosinusitis.  Chronic rhinosinusitis is one of the most common medical condition seen in the U.S.  We are currently investigating the role of Staphylococcus aureus in the pathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis.  We have demonstrated the presence of IgE allergic antibody in the serum of patients' with chronic rhinosinusitis.  We have also implied a superantigen  effect in the pathogenesis of nasal polyps by demonstrating clonal expansion of staphylococcal toxin specific T cell receptor (TCR) V-b domains in the polyp lymphocytes of individuals with chronic rhinosinusitis and nasal polyps.
1036835	Dr. Costello?s research interests focus on clinical investigations in critically ill children with congenital and acquired cardiac disease. He is currently involved in perioperative clinical trials investigating natriuretic hormone infusions and strict glycemic control following pediatric cardiac surgery. He is also interested in the epidemiology and prevention of healthcare associated infections in critically ill children, and outcomes studies in neonates with critical congenital heart disease.
1036839	My primary research interests are in translational efforts in GI oncology.
1036841	Please visit our Sinus & Allergy Center website.<br/>www.northwestern-sinus.com
1036853	1. Targetting frail elderly in acute care setting using EMR and developing interventions to improve hospital and posthospitalization outcomes
2. Hospital wide QI project of recognition of cognitively impaired patients, and recognition and prevention of delirium
1036859	Electroencephalography, Epilepsy, Seizure disorders
1036916	Dr. Gonzalez's clinical interests include male reconstructive surgery and health policy.  He was awarded an NIH SPORE project pilot grant to study prostate cancer screening trends in Chicago?s Hispanic community. He has also received funding from the Grant Healthcare Foundation for the development of electronic pre-visit software in order to improve the quality of patient care, reduce errors, control costs, and facilitate patient flow.
1036943	My laboratory focuses on understanding pathways relevant to the recruitment and trafficking of leukocytes within the intestines. Our goal is to understand how altering this recruitment can influence states of intestinal inflammation, specifically Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD).  My primary clinical interest is IBD (Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis). I am also interested in understanding the relationship of the intestinal immune system to GI symptoms in rheumatologic disorders, specifically Juvenile Dermatomyositis.
1036974	Management of thyroid cancer, its recurrence process and associated neck dissections and advanced thyroid cancer with special interest in young adults.
1036989	My primary interested is in the career advising of medical students.
1037005	The diagnosis and treatment of bleeding disorders and their complications. <br/>Evaluation of causes of thrombosis and education regarding treatment and prevention of thrombosis.
1037039	Dr. Mary Beth Madonna is a pediatric surgeon with expertise in minimally invasive surgery, hernias, undescended testes, gynecologic diseases, neonatal surgery, neck masses, cancer surgery and emergency consultations. Special interest in diseases of the intestines, specifically anorectal malformations and Hirschsprung?s disease. Founded a special bowel management clinic for patients with these diseases ? the second of its kind in the country.
1037049	I am a general Pediatrician who sees children from birth through college.  I have a clinical interest in breastfeeding and also in allergies, eczema, and asthma.  I speak Polish.  
1037051	Asthma and allergic diseases in the elderyly-project studied how to empower low income elderly patients to obtain appropriate asthma care.<br/>Role of innate immunity in asthma exacerbations: project involves measuring innate immune markers in asthmatics with high and low frequency of exacerbations.
1037051	Asthma, Hypersensitivity pneumonitis, Urticaria
1037113	Stem cell regulation in diabetic nephropathy
1037136	Dr. Hairston?s clinical interests include male and female incontinence, voiding dysfunction and pelvic reconstruction. He holds a particular interest in voiding dysfunction from neurologic causes such as spinal cord injury, multiple sclerosis, stroke, etc. His research efforts have included trials encompassing the prevention of UTIs in spinal cord injury patients, a placebo-controlled trial for treating Interstitial Cystitis, and investigation on the safety and efficacy of the urethral bulking agent Macroplastique for the treatment of female urinary stress incontinence.
1037160	Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Medical consultations, Primary care internal medicine
1037160	Using enhancements in interdisciplinary teamwork to reduce adverse events in the hospital. 
1037226	Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS), ERCP
1037232	Aestetic-cosmetic, Breast surgery, Eyelid, Oculoplastic, Orbit reconstrunction
1037259	Dr. Story is intersted in asthma and food allergy.  In the area of asthma she is particularly interested in the relationship between asthma and obesity.  In the area of food allergy she is interested in prevention and treatment of food allergy as well as eosinophilic esophagitis.
1037261	My clinical interest is the diagnosis and management of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and my research interest is the application of noninvasive imaging techniques such as cardiac MRI to HCM and the evaluation of their utility in risk stratification for sudden death/ adverse outcomes in HCM.
1037261	My research interest is in the relationship of clinical outcomes in Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy patients with their cardiac imaging findings. My clinical interests include, the care of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, family history of sudden cardiac death, left ventricular hypertrophy, valvular heart disease, coronary artery disease and preoperative cardiac evaluation.
1037262	Clinical Interests:  Cerebrovascular Surgery, Skull Base Surgery, Interventional Neurosurgery.<br/>Research Intesrests:  Outcome studies in vascular neurosurgery and stroke, Vascular biology of braina neurysms and arteriovenous malformations, Imagaing of neurovascular diseases and brain ischemia
1037264	General gastroenterology
1037282	The majority of my clinical research spans the areas of type 2 diabetes in youth, insulin resistance, metabolic syndrome and polycystic ovary syndrome.  My research explores both pathophysiology as well as treatment options. <br/>I am also involved in TrialNet, a national consortium exploring avenues to prevent type 1 diabetes.
1037285	Anesthesia for High Risk Spine Surgery<br/>Anesthesia for Urological Surgery
1037296	Rheumatoid arthritis pathophysiology, cytokine biology,<br/>inflammatory arthritis, general rheumatology
1037305	My primary clinical interests relate to hemoglobin disorders, specifically pediatric and adult sickle cell disease and thalassemia.  I also engage in clinical investigation in these areas.  I am the principal investigator of several protocols at Children's Memorial Hospital related to the following areas in children and young adults with sickle cell disease: 1) the detection of early cardiopulmonary complications, including pulmonary hypertension and intrinsic lung disease 2) the physiologic assessment of exercise capacity, 3) the evaluation of the inflammatory response to exercise, and 4) the assessment of free-living physical activity in this population.  I am also interested in the use of qualitative methods to study parental decision making as it relates to pediatric research participation as well as the socio-cultural barriers that face Asian and Asian Indian families affected by thalassemia.
1037308	Abnormal uterine bleeding, Adolescent health, Annual gynecological examinations, Menopause and menopausal symptoms, Minimally invasive treatment options, Osteoporosis and bone health, Uterine fibroids
1037345	Neuroradiology
1037363	My clinical interests encompass the Genitourinary malignancies including kidney cancer, bladder cancer, prostate cancer, penile and testis cancer with special interest in kidney cancer. My primary research interests involve translational applications of novel nanotechnology in the genitourinary cancers.
1037372	Dr. Perry is Co-Director of the Minimally Invasive Surgery Program and is a nationally recognized expert in minimally invasive approaches to kidney cancers and other malignancies.  He has focused on treating renal and prostate tumors via robotic, laparoscopic and percutaneous approaches in order to reduce bleeding, complications, post-operative pain and recovery time.
1037374	regional: peripheral nerve blocks, transverse abdominus plane block, continuous peripheral nerve catheters<br/>obstetrics: epidural anesthesia, risk factors for postpartum hemorrhage
1037482	Interventional Cardiology
1037512	Dr. Rinella's research interests primarily include non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).  She is engaged in both laboratory and clinical investigation of the pathophysiology of these diseases.  Her patient oriented research focuses on new treatments and understanding the factors responsible for the progression of NASH.
1037526	hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for autoimmune diseases. stem cell based therapy for incurable diseases. gene and immune therapy for malignancies.
1037526	stem cell based therapy and stem cell transplantation for non-malignancies.
1037532	Critical Care Medicine
1037537	Benign breast disease, Breast cancer surgery
1037549	We are interested in understanding the mechanisms leading to newborn brain injury, especially preterm brain injury. Our research focuses on the impact of hypoxia-ischemia on the development of cells of the oligodendroglial lineage. Our strategy is to genetically manipulate BMP signaling in an attempt to regenerate white matter lost to perinatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury.
1037573	1.  Evaluation of Resident Physicians in their  performance of Internal Medicine Procedures using simulation
2. Congestive Heart Failure<br/>Outcomes at discharge and congestion relief
1037583	Clinical Interests:  Interventional Cardiology, Critical Care, Heart Failure, Peripheral Artery Disease<br/>Research Interests:  Ischemic Cardiomyopathy, Diabetes and Coronary Artery Disease
1037583	Dr. Flaherty is an Assistant Professor of Medicine in Interventional Cardiology.  His clinical interests include coronary and peripheral intervention, PFO and ASD closure, heart failure, valvular heart disease, cardiac CT angiography and critical care.  His research interests include coronary revascularization in patients with heart failure and diabetic patients with coronary artery disease.  In 2008, he was recognized as the Teacher of the Year in the Division of Cardiology.<br/>Dr. Flaherty is board certified in Internal Medicine, Cardiovascular Disease and Interventional Cardiology.  Prior to joining the faculty in 2006, he completed residency and fellowship training at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.  He received additional training in Left Main Coronary Artery Stenting in Seoul, Korea.  He was graduated with honors from the State University of New York at Buffalo School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences in 1999.   
1037662	Perioperative Pulmonary Disease Management, Aneurysmal Subarachnoid Hemorrhage, Mechanical Ventilatory Support<br/>End of Life, Do Not Resuscitate
1037673	I am interested in Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine, especially congenital cardiac defects and their management. I am also interested in the use of computers in medicine related to improving efficiency and quality in clinical medicine. 
1037813	I have a busy clinical cardiology practice in Glenview and Evanston as well as teaching responsibilities at Evanston and Glenbrook Hospitals.
1037814	Abdominal and thoracic aneurysm repair, Carotid angioplasty and stenting, Endovascular surgery
1037814	Dr. Eskandari is a vascular surgeon at the Bluhm Cardiovascular Institute of Northwestern Memorial Hospital with a special interest in endovascular surgery and stent technology. He is also an associate professor of Surgery and Radiology, co-director of the Northwestern Endovascular Center, director of Carotid and Peripheral Artery Interventions, assistant director of the Blood Flow Laboratory and is on staff at Evanston Hospital. Dr. Eskandari has a special interest in carotid stenting. He developed the Carotid Stent Program at Northwestern Memorial and is the site principal investigator for the National Institutes of Health-sponsored CREST trial comparing carotid stenting with endarterectomy. He also specializes in abdominal and thoracic aneurysm repair. <br/>An associate professor at Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine, Dr. Eskandari has educational experience as an instructor for both the Resident Core Curriculum and the Scientific Basis of Medicine course. He has served on the faculty of Northwestern University's annual Vascular Surgery Symposium, the Midwestern Vascular Surgical Society's endovascular training course, and the Vascular Interventional Advances peripheral vascular interventions course. He is also course director for several national carotid stent and thoracic stent graft training programs. <br/>Dr. Eskandari currently serves as Northwestern's primary investigator for four trials investigating the use of stent grafts in the treatment of thoracic and abdominal aortic aneurysms. He is the Northwestern Vascular Surgery Fellowship Program Director and serves as the director of the Department of Surgery Morbidity and Mortality Conference. <br/>His bibliography includes 55 peer-reviewed manuscripts, 17 book chapters, and over 60 international presentations. In addition, he has received three awards for excellence in research endeavors and is the recipient of the Lifeline Foundation's Wylie Traveling Fellowship. <br/>Dr. Eskandari serves as reviewer for Journal of Endovascular Therapy, Journal of Vascular Surgery, Journal of Vascular and Interventional Radiology, Journal of the American Medical Association, Expert Opinion on Therapeutic Targets and Future Cardiology. He is associate editor for the Yearbook of Vascular Surgery and on the editorial board the Journal of Endovascular Therapy. <br/>He currently sits on the Society for Vascular Surgery Practice Guidelines Committee, and is a representative to the Intersocietal Commission for the Accreditation of Computed Tomography Laboratories for the Society for Vascular Surgery. Dr. Eskandari also serves on several quality management and leadership committees for Northwestern Memorial Hospital. <br/>Dr. Eskandari completed his undergraduate and medical schooling at the University of Michigan. He completed his general surgery residency at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and his vascular fellowship at Northwestern University Medical School in 1999. He is board certified in general surgery and vascular surgery. 
1037905	Skin Cancer, Facial Aging
1037926	Research is primarily concerning food allergy, but clinical interests also include asthma, atopic dermatitis (eczema), and allergic rhinosinusitis.
1037928	My primary areas of research interests and clinical expertise are psychiatric and cognitive problems of children with epilepsy and other neurological disorders, as well as diagnosis and treatment of psychogenic non-epileptic seizures.  I have developed multidisciplinary clinical service model to provide effective comprehensive treatment for children suffering from comorbid neurological and psychiatric illnesses.  This clinical program provides guidance and assistance in their transition to adulthood. It also offers a unique training environment for fellows in child psychiatry and neurology. 
1037962	Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), Coronary CT angiography, Cardiac CT, CT angiography, Vascular and interventional radiology
1038130	Otolaryngology, Surgery, sinus, Surgery, voice, Voice disorders
1038180	My clinical interests are pulmonary vascular disease and cardiovascular disease. I am specifically interested in the evaluation and treatment of children with pulmonary vascular disease, and infants with anatomic or functional cardiovascular disease.<br/>My research interests include clinical characterization and management strategies of children with pulmonary vascular disease, and basic evaluation of cardiac remodeling in response to pulmonary vascular pressure overload.
1038351	Advanced laparoscopic procedures, Gastroesophageal reflux disease, Inguinal hernias, Laparoscopic Anti-Reflux Surgery, Laparoscopic Bariatric Surgery, Laparoscopic Heller Myotomy
1038726	Currently my research focuses on the development and validation of magnetic resonance imaging techniques for optimal delivery and functional guidance of minimally invasive therapies, early prediction of therapy response, and non-invasive staging of carcinogenesis. My most recent efforts are focused on the development of imaging methods for primary and metastatic tumors of the liver. Our group deliberately emphasizes a bench-to-bedside translational approach to research. Working closely with a multi-disciplinary group of clinical collaborators, methods first developed and validated in phantoms and animal models are rapidly translated to the clinical setting at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.
1038918	Research expertise and area of interest is the measurement and promotion of lifestyle physical activity among persons with arthritis, to alleviate symptoms of arthritis and delay the onset and progression of arthritis-related disability.
1039131	Cardiac arrhythimias, General cardiology
1039265	mood disorders, including depression and bipolar disorder; treatment of psychiatric illness in patients with coexisting medical and neurologic disease
1039271	Transplant Nephrology, Role of immunosuppressive medications in modulating the immune system, Genomic of chronic renal allograft rejection, Chronic kidney disease after liver transplant, Prednisone-free and Calcineurin inhibitors free immunosuppressive protocols, new immunosuppressive strategies
1039271	Unos Medical Director Renal Transplant Program.<br/>Unos Medical Director Pancreas Transplant Program.<br/>Director and Course developer for Renal Transplant Fellowship.<br/>Director, Transplant Nephrology.<br/>Research: Impact of different immunosuppressive protocols on kidney function. Immunobiology of kidney allograft rejection.<br/>NIH sponsored trials: Genomics of chronic renal allograft rejection. Impact of Folic acid supplementation on cardiovascular disease of renal transplant patients (Favorit Trial). Immunophenotypig and functional profiles of peripheral lymphocytes in renal transplant recipients after T-cell depletion. <br/>Course Director for Monthly Clinical Transplant Conference
1039301	Congestive heart failure, Heart transplantation
1039330	Clinical interests: Glaucoma and cataract.  Normal-Tension Glaucoma, Pigmentary Glaucoma, Pseudoexfoliation Glaucoma.  Early Diagnosis of Glaucoma.<br/>Research interets: Selective Perimetry for the Early Diagnosis of Glaucoma, Optic Nerve and Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Imaging, Tonometry, Efficacy and Safety of Glaucoma Medications, Epidemiology of Glaucoma.
1039411	Chronic viral hepatitis, Post liver transplant medical issues
1039479	Lasik surgery, Ophthalmic pathology, Refractive surgery, Refractive surgery
1039486	I have had a long-standing interest in studying RNA regulatory mechanisms in development.  My lab has focused on studying the mechanism of action of Evfs, novel long non-coding RNAs that regulate transcription factors essential for proper GABAergic interneuron development.  Although a critical role for developmentally regulated transcription factors in patterning and differentiation has been established for some time, the role of long, polyadenylated non-coding RNAs (lpncRNAs) is only beginning to be understood.  A handful of lpncRNAs play roles in X-inactivation, imprinting, and germ cell development, raising the question of whether lpncRNAs constitute a common or rare gene regulatory mechanism in the developing embryo. We recently showed that the novel lpncRNA, Evf2 is conserved across vertebrates (ultraconserved), and is a sonic hedgehog target in the developing forebrain.  We also showed for the first time that the lpncRNA Evf2 complexes with the Dlx2 homeodomain transcription factor and regulates Dlx 5/6 enhancer activity in vitro (Feng et al. 2006).  Through analysis of an Evf2 loss-of-function mouse model developed in my lab, we now find that the Evf2ncRNA is not only required for proper regulation of genes in the Dlx 5/6 region, but also for proper GABAergic interneuron development in the embryonic brain and adult hippocampal circuitry (Bond et al. 2009).  This provides a novel mechanism in which a DNA regulatory element is regulated by a complementary lpncRNA critical for proper interneuron development.Future work focuses on the mechanism of Evf2-dependent interneuron loss and mechanisms involved in long ncRNA transcriptional control. In addition, the importance of GABA in orchestrating multiple developmental events and maintaining homeostasis in adult brain circuitry is leading us to test whether Evf2-mutants exhibit specific behavioral phenotypes.  Results supports the idea that a single ncRNA controls a  complex behavior.
1039527	My research interests are ecclectic and varied. 
1039528	Dyspnea / exercise physiology, Interstitial lung disease, Lung cancer
1039530	Pathogenesis of Legionella pneumophila, intracellular parasitism and protein secretion.
1039566	Leukemia (CLL), Lymphoma
1039668	Body imaging, Cross sectional imaging of the body, Genitourinary radiology, Ultrasound, Ultrasound evaluation in organ transplantation, Ultrasound evaluation in prostate imaging
1039670	Pharmacology of gastrointestinal disorders, Upper gastrointestinal tract disorders, functional gastrointestinal disorders, Helicobacter pylori infection, colorectal cancer screening and educaiton
1039677	General gastroenterology.
1039815	I am a consulting biostatistician, with focus on clinical trials, basic science and epidemiology.
1040000	Improving both the short and long-term outcomes for critically ill and premature infants, tracking the neurodevelopmental outcomes in these patients throughout the developemental period, ensuring that the same level of quality is provided to each patient in both of the neonatal intensive care units at Children's Memorial Hospital and Prentice Women's Hospital from the moment of birth throughout their hospital course
1040160	We study the regulation of alveolar fluid clearance under hypoxia. In particular we study the signal transduction mechanisms that regulate the activity of the Na,K-ATPase in alveolar epithelial cells
1040637	Anatomic Pathology, Neuropathology, Neuromuscular pathology<BR><BR><br/>The early growth response (Egr) family of transcription factors are involved in cellular growth and differentiation and may play a role as initiation and propagation factors in some cancers. A major focus of our research is to understand the role of Egr transcription factors during development of the mammalian nervous system. We and others have discovered that these transcription factors regulate a variety of developmental processes including hindbrain organization, peripheral nerve myelination, sympathetic nervous system development, male and female fertility, induction of late phase long term potentiation (a form of synaptic plasticity) and muscle mechanoreceptor development. In the nervous system, Egr transcription factors are downstream signaling mediators of neuronal activity and growth factor molecules known as neurotrophins. We are actively exploring their role in mediating a variety of neurotrophin actions that include neurite outgrowth, synaptic vesicle protein regulation and muscle stretch receptor development. As plasticity related transcription factors, Egr genes are important for mediating nervous system adaptation to a variety of developmental and environmental stimuli. Egr transcription factors are also essential for some non-nervous system related developmental processes. For example, they are involved in monocyte and thymocyte development, and they are involved in growth and differentiation of pheochromocytoma and neuroblastoma tumors. Using these model systems of differentiation, we are exploring the varied developmental pathways and target genes regulated by Egr transcription factors to elucidate their roles in cancer and developmental biology.
1040956	Cancer pain, chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, neuropathic pain syndromes and their prevention or management, analgesic agents for relief of pain, international efforts to relieve pain and improve end-of-life care
1040956	Dr. Paice's clinical work is in the management of cancer-related pain. Current research is in the study of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy associated with paclitaxel.
1041070	Epstein-Barr virus, viral genome replication, viral genome maintenance, latency, transformation
1041107	Clinical interests: include all of anesthesiology with a particular interest in securing airway management and anesthesia in the most difficult airway patients as well as providing anesthesia and monitoring for patients needing brain or spinal column surgery.  Primary research interests: involve improving education of airway management among anesthesiology trainees.  This has encompassed various facets, including the following:  development of an assessment tool for determination of baseline knowledge in trainees, production of checklists for different airway management techniques, construction of computer-based modules for teaching airway management, organization of simulation sessions in the specific area of endotracheal extubation, and a continuing study to improve American Society of Anesthesiologists attendees skill and self-confidence in adult flexible fiberoptic intubation.
1041130	Psychometrics, Informatics, Clinical Infometrics, Aging, Palliative and End-of-Life Care Research, Patient-Reported Outcomes (PRO), Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQOL), Caregiver Health, Clinical Decision Making, Health Literacy, Item Response Theory (IRT), Rasch Measurement Models, Item Banking and Computerized Adaptive Testing (CAT)
1041142	Research areas of interest include: public health genomics, ethical/legal/social issues in genetics/genomics, translational genomics, community-based participatory research interventions and education models, community consultation methods, client-derived outcome measures, and cross-cultural issues with underserved populations in health care. 
1041268	Medical Physics, Digital Imaging, Cancer Detection,<br/>Clinical Image Quality
1041308	Healthy lifestyles, Medical care of the obese patient, Preventive medicine
1041441	My research agenda lies in the area of Experimental and Clinical Neuroscience, and involves mainly the study of spinal neuronal mechanisms/circuits coupled with motor control and locomotion. The main driven force for my studies is to better understand the functional units of motor control in humans so to develop rehabilitation protocols that promote sensorimotor recovery in people with a spinal cord injury (SCI). I employ non-invasive electrophysiological techniques incorporating also engineering elements to fully describe the above concepts. Currently, my research studies are concentrated on examining the reorganization of spinal reflex circuits after intensive locomotor training in people with SCI. 
1041463	My research interests are to understand how cells in the body can contribute to the heart and lungs during our lives. This process starts during fetal development and is often inhibited by disease. So I am studying cells that make blood vessels in the fetus and how this is controlled by signaling pathways. Then I would like to figure out how to activate these fetal programs in adults with heart and lung disease.
1041493	Hematopathology <BR><BR><br/>Cytogenetics, hematologic malignancies
1041494	Migration of subventricular zone cells.
1041544	We investigate the roles of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypertension. ROS alter gene expression, enzyme activity and vascular cell growth, leading to impaired vasorelaxation and vascular remodeling. Our goals are to identify the sources of ROS and their downstream targets, thus identifying potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension.
1041556	Pediatric Nephrology, Lupus Nephritis and Vasculitis, Nephrotic Syndrome, FSGS (Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis), Hypertension, Dialysis and Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy, Prenatal Counseling regarding congenital kidney conditions, Polycystic Kidney Disease
1041624	Our research closely links to the clinical problem of pressure induced soft tissue injury, commonly seen as the pressure sore in SCI individuals. To test our hypotheses that the mechanical properties are altered in wounded and denervated tissues, soft tissue samples (skin, fat, muscle) freshly collected from able-bodied, SCI individuals, and wounded tissues are being tested for compressive mechanical properties. Rat models of chronic SCI and pressure sore are being used to characterize the mechanical property change in vivo and ex vivo. A finite-element model for buttock-thigh has been developed specifically for the condition of sitting, is used as a tool to bridge the lab-acquired basic knowledge of the soft tissues and the clinical problems in reality. The effect of different sitting configuration on the buttock-thigh tissue loading, tissue perfusion, and skin temperature elevation are evaluated. We found that sitting greatly impeded tissue perfusion in buttock tissue and the pressure relief push-ups did not provide adequate recovery for tissue perfusion. Also, SCI individuals needed longer time for buttock tissue perfusion to recover after a long time sitting. We developed an Intelligent Automated Pressure Relief Seat ? IAPRS which detects the seat-buttock contact and automatically relieves the buttock loading by lowering down the back part of the seat. IAPRS is being tested in clinical setting on SCI individuals and sitting related pressure sore. Preliminary results show that IAPRS promotes the pressure ulcer healing in sitting area, while maintaining the mobility for wheelchair users during the treatment of pressure ulcers. To test the feasibility of early detecting of pressure induced deep tissue injury under intact skin; an ultrasound tissue palpating probe (TUPS) has been adapted for in vivo testing of soft tissue gross stiffness on human subjects and on our animal models to differentiate injured from healthy tissue by detecting their stiffness difference
1041683	Ambulatory anesthesia, Regional anesthesia
1041733	I am primarily interested in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with inherited metabolic disorders and in clinical trials of new therapies for rare disorders. I have particular interest and expertise in disorders daignosed through newborn screening (phenylketonuria and others) and in lysosomal storage disorders.
1041762	Alveolar epithelial cell function, Gene transfer, epithelial beta-adrenergic receptors
1041909	Pediatric oculoplastic disease, ocular involvement in cGVHD, adult strabismus
1041920	hypoxia
1042081	My work focuses on cancer stem cells (CSCs) found in patients with primary brain tumors, in particular, Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Despite aggressive treatment including surgery, radiation and chemotherapy, the average survival of patients with GBM is just over one year.  I believe that tumor progression in driven by glioma stem cells that are intrinsically resistant to cell death secondary to radiation- and chemotherapy-induced DNA damage. In collaboration with Drs John Kessler and Sam Stupp, I am working on a self-assembling nanogel conjugated to a biologically active molecule that can diminish the stem-ness of these cells, and render them more susceptible to current treatments.
1042149	I am interested in the treatment of spinal column and cord disease, specifically traumatic, degenerative, and neoplastic processes. I am currently investigating the outcomes of people with post-traumatic syringomyelia. In addition, I am studying the effect of surgical treatment on basal energy expenditure in those with lumbar spondylolisthesis. I am a member of the Spine Oncology Study Group, an international multidisciplinary group dedicated to the furthering of our understanding reagrding the care of people with tumors of the spinal column. Lastly, I have a number of studies at present regarding both undergraduate and gradute medical education.
1042263	Crohn's disease, IBD - Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Ulcerative colitis
1042273	Dr Meier?s research interests lie in the fields of functional evaluation of prosthetic components, the development of appropriate prosthetic/orthotic components and technology for economically disadvantaged countries, and the successful dissemination of such technology through the development of appropriate education materials (knowledge transfer). She is further interested in the development of alternative and intelligent materials and their application in the field of prosthetics and orthotics. Dr Meier also has an interest in motor control and the adaptations that occur during the rehabilitation process.
1042296	Dr. Andrew Evens is Assistant Professor of Medicine at the Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University and member of the Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center. Following graduation with honors from Chicago College of Osteopathic Medicine, Dr. Evens completed an Internal Medicine residency at Lutheran General Hospital and he served an additional year as Chief Resident.  Dr. Evens subsequently completed his Hematology/Oncology fellowship at Northwestern University and is board certified in Hematology and Medical Oncology.  During fellowship, Dr. Evens also completed a Masters of Science in Clinical Investigation at Northwestern University.<br/>Dr. Evens' clinical and research interests are in lymphoma: non-Hodgkin lymphoma and Hodgkin disease, including stem cell transplantation (SCT).  Dr. Evens is also involved in a translational lymphoma laboratory to develop and study novel treatment agents for the treatment of lymphoma. His translational investigations have included research of free radical-mediated biology and the study of apoptotic pathways in hematologic malignancies.  Dr. Evens was awarded a 5-year NIH/NCI K23 grant towards the study of targeting the mitochondria for the treatment of lymphoma.  <br/>Dr. Evens is Principal Investigator for several investigator-initiated clinical trials including the combination of motexafin gadolinium with zevalin radioimmunotherapy for relapsed lymphoma, proteasome inhibitor/rituximab therapy for untreated indolent lymphoma, gemcitabine/bortezomib for T-cell lymphoma, chemoimmunotherapy for Burkitt's lymphoma, and a novel therapeutic regimen for the treatment of primary CNS lymphoma.  He has also published data regarding the prognosis and treatment of mantle-cell lymphoma and treatment of newly diagnosed and relapsed/refractory Hodgkin disease.<br/>Dr. Evens is a member of the Core lymphoma committee of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) and he is Principal Investigator for national ECOG clinical trials. Dr. Evens is involved in collaborations with investigators at Northwestern and throughout the region regarding post-transplant related lymphoma, drug safety, and epidemiologic lymphoma research.  He also co-chairs an annual Chicago Lymphoma Symposium along with the University of Chicago.<br/>Dr. Evens was recipient of the 2002 ECOG Translational Research Award and received the Compassionate Care award from the Women's Board of Northwestern Memorial Hospital in 2005.  Dr. Evens is also highly interested in mentoring residents and fellows at Northwestern University for translational and clinical research. 
1042296	Dr. Evens' clinical and research interests are in lymphoma: non-Hodgkin lymphoma and Hodgkin disease, including stem cell transplantation (SCT). Dr. Evens is also involved in a translational lymphoma laboratory to develop and study novel treatment agents for the treatment of lymphoma. His translational investigations have included research of free radical-mediated biology and the study of apoptotic pathways in hematologic malignancies. Dr. Evens is Principal Investigator for a multitude of investigator-initiated and industry-sponsored clinical trials studying new exciting treatments agents for lymphoma. Dr. Evens is a member of the Core lymphoma committee of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) and he is Principal Investigator for several national ECOG clinical trials. He is also involved in collaborations with investigators at Northwestern and throughout the world regarding post-transplant related lymphoma, drug safety, and epidemiologic lymphoma research.
1042297	Dr Kaklamani has been working on the role of TGF-&#946; and its polymorphisms in breast and colon cancer risk. She is currently conduction two clinical trials enrolling patients with a person and/or family history of breast and colon cancer. The objectives of these trials are to identify genetic markers which will lead to earlier detection and prevention of breast and colon cancer. <br/>Dr Kaklamani is also conduction clinical trials with a focus of treatment of breast cancer. More specifically she is the principal investigator of a trial evaluating an investigational agent, RSR-13, in patients receiving brain radiation for breast cancer. 
1042297	Dr Kaklamani's research interest is novel genes related to breast, colon and prostate cancer
1042299	General Gastroenterology<br/>Colon cancer screening<br/>Biliary disease--ERCP<br/>Viral hepatitis B and C
1042299	My interests include colon cancer sceening, GERD, inflammatory bowel disease, viral hepatitis, autoimmune liver disease, hemochromotosis, complications of cirrhosis including and liver cancer.
1042402	Child health within the context of the family, with particular emphasis on the role of fathers and special attention to the ability of techonology to support parenting.
1042418	Preventive medicine, Primary care internal medicine
1042558	Obstetric Anesthesiology
1042563	Dr. Kyriacou is Professor of Emergency Medicine and Preventive Medicine at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.  His medical degree is from the University of Michigan and his residency training was in emergency medicine at the Los Angeles County + University of Southern California Medical Center.  He also has a Master of Public Health degree from the University of Michigan and a Doctor of Philosophy degree in epidemiology from the UCLA School of Public Health where his dissertation project was on risk factors for injury from domestic violence.  In addition, Dr. Kyriacou has a Diploma in Tropical Medicine and Hygiene from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.  Dr. Kyriacou?s research interests also include injury prevention, clinical infectious diseases, and health services.  Dr. Kyriacou has mentored numerous medical students, residents, and junior faculty on clinical and epidemiological research methods, resulting in several publications and the awarding of numerous master?s degrees.  Dr. Kyriacou?s research endeavors have been recognized with awards from the Emergency Medicine Foundation and the University of California/California Wellness Foundation.  Dr. Kyriacou has also international experience, having worked in Ghana and Ethiopia.  He was recently appointed to the Fulbright Specialist Roster.
1042630	My clinical and research areas of interest include RETINOBLASTOMA, LYMPHOMAS(both Non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin subtypes) and post-transplantation lymphomas, and the HISTIOCYTOSES.  Our retinoblastoma team includes oncologists, ophthalmologists, a social worker, a genetics counselor, clinical research specialists, as well as researchers in the laboratory.  We are currently working on novel approaches to treating retinoblastoma, the most common intraocular tumor of childhood.
1042631	Radiofrequency Ablation - Tumors, Sympathectomy/ Hyperhidrosis, Thoracic Oncology, Bronchoscopy, Brachytherapy, Robotic Thoracic Surgery, Lobectomy, Esophagectomy, Airway/Esophageal Stenting, Medistinal Tumors, Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Esophageal Cancer, Esophageal Disorders, Minimally Invasive Surgery, Mesothelioma, Lung Cancer, Chest Wall/Mediastinal Tumors, Tracheal Surgery, Video-Assisted Thoracoscopic Surgery
1042734	Advanced minimally invasive surgery in infants and children, neonatal surgery, tumors<br/>and developmental anomalies, surgery for hernias and undescended testes, thyroid disease,<br/>chest wall deformities, anorectal malformation, hirschsprung's disease, ovarian and breast diseases, surgical ultrasound, and healthcare quality and patient safety.
1042758	Hematopathology <BR><BR><br/>Diagnostic and prognostic markers for lymphomas and leukemia.
1042765	Dr. Koski has a strong interest in adult spinal deformity, spine tumors, and complex revision surgeries. He is actively involved in research focused on patient outcomes, spinal sagittal alignment, and quality of life in adults with spine deoformity.
1042768	My research focuses on the migratory/invasive behavior of brain tumor cells that results in increased resistance of these cells to chemotherapy and radiation therapy.  I am addressing this question through molecular biology and genetic techniques with the aim of finding ways to reverse resistance to these therapies and thus improving patient outcomes.  My clinical interest is synergistic with that of my research, in the surgical care of patients diagnosed with brain tumors.
1042791	Primary interests include ambulatory regional anesthesia and obstetric anesthesia.
1042806	My primary research interest surrounds the physiologic and pathophysiologic regulation of the fetoplacental vasculature and its contribution to short- and long-term pregnancy outcome.
1042840	Pancreatic diseases, pancreatic neoplasms, chronic pancreatitis, surgery for pancreatic cancer and chronic pancreatitis
1042973	My research interests include rehabilitation outcomes and health policy research. In particular, I have expertise in the design, development, selection, and enhancement of rehabilitation outcomes measures using contemporary psychometric approaches. My research compares access and outcomes of across post-acute care rehabilitation settings. My health policy research involves examining the impact of Medicare post-acute care policy on service utilization, costs, and patient outcomes.  I have been a licensed occupational therapist for over 20 years working in the areas of both older adults and pediatrics. My particular clinical interest is behavior change and human motivation.  I am certified as a trainer in Motivational Interviewing. I am a charter member of the AOTA Research Advisory Panel and serves as an AOTA representative to the Preventive Care and Screening workgroup of the American Medical Association?s (AMA) Physician Consortium on Performance Improvement (PCPI) which is responsible for developing quality indicators in health promotion and prevention.
1042976	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is currently the fourth leading cause of cancer-related death in the US, with a median survival time after diagnosis of less than 6 months and a 5-year disease-free survival of less than 5%. Pancreatic cancer is commonly associated with pronounced collagen-rich fibrotic reaction. We have found that there is significant cross-talk between type I collagen and the key proteinase membrane type 1-matrix metalloproteinase (MT1-MMP, MMP-14) in regulating pancreatic cancer invasion. MT1-MMP is overexpressed in human pancreatic tumors particularly in areas of pronounced fibrosis. To better understand the role of MT1-MMP in vivo, we have created transgenic mice that can be targeted to express MT1-MMP in the pancreas, and have crossed these mice with mice expressing mutant KrasG12D. Excitingly, co-expression of human MMP-14 and K-rasG12D in the pancreas results in large, cystic, papillary lesions consistent with human intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms. Surprisingly, these lesions have very pronounced fibrotic reaction and are associated with increased TGF-&beta; signaling and activation of stellate cells. <br/>We have also been examining whether the interplay between collagen and MT1-MMP is involved in resistance of pancreatic cancer cells to gemcitabine chemotherapy. Recent reports have suggested that the fibrotic reaction limits the delivery and effectiveness of current therapies in pancreatic cancer. Consequently, my research group has been examining the extent to which type I collagen contributes to gemcitabine resistance. We have found that cells grown in 3D type I collagen are less likely to respond to gemcitabine compared to cells grown atop 3D collagen or on tissue culture plastic. Significantly, we have found that the effect is mediated in part via MT1-MMP. We are currently in the process of characterizing the detailed signaling pathways downstream of MT1-MMP that are involved in chemotherapy resistance in the 3D microenvironment.
1042976	The major focus of my lab is to understand the mechanisms utilized by invading and metastasizing tumor cells to promote expression and activity of extracellular matrix-degrading matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). The lab currently has two projects. In our oral cancer project, we are interested in understanding how TGF-b1 signaling through Snail family of transcription factors increases MMPs and promotes invasion of oral cancer cells in 2D and 3D organotypic models of oral cancer. We have also established an orthotopic model for oral cancer wherein OSCC cells expressing GFP-tagged Snail or Slug are injected directly into the tongue to examine the role of these key proteins in promoting tumor growth and invasion in the in vivo microenvironment. In addition to our work in oral cancer, we have also been examining the contribution of fibrosis to pancreatic cancer progression. Fibrosis, also known as desmoplastic reaction, is a very prominent feature of almost all human pancreatic tumors, and earlier reports suggested that this desmoplasia in fact contributed to pancreatic cancer progression. We recently published that the pancreatic cancer cells adjacent to areas of fibrosis exhibit increased expression of membrane type 1-MMP (MT1-MMP). We are particularly interested in understanding how the desmoplastic reaction increases the expression of MT1-MMP in the cancer cells, thus enabling the pancreatic cancer cells to invade through a collagen-rich extracellular matrix. In addition to utilizing in vitro models to examine the cross-talk between type I collagen and MT1-MMP, we have also established a transgenic mouse model in which MT1-MMP is selectively and under regulated conditions expressed in the pancreas to examine the effect of MT1-MMP on tumor growth and on the generation of desmoplastic reaction.
1043078	Geriatric Medicine, Geriatric Education, Discharge Processes/ Transitional Care, Paid Caregivers of Seniors, Patient Safety, Medical Education
1043078	Lee Lindquist, MD, MPH is an Assistant Professor of Medicine at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.  She is a member of the Division of Geriatrics and her clinical practice primarily revolves around care of those aged 65 yrs and older.  Dr. Lindquist is a graduate of Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine and completed her internal medicine residency and her fellowship training in geriatrics at Northwestern University. She is board certified in internal medicine and geriatrics.  She also completed her Masters in Public Health during her participation in the NRSA fellowship program. Her research has focused on issues of transitional care among the elderly, particularly in improving the safety between the hospital discharge to outpatient care settings. She has also performed work on assisted living and alternatives to assisted living for the elderly as well as improving geriatric education for medical students. 
1043177	Surgical Pathology <BR><BR>
1043288	Breast imaging
1043300	Geriatric oncology, patient safety, health literacy, public policy, pharmacoeconomics, health law, human rights, dementias (including Dementia Alzheimer's Type), healthcare management, innovation, and marketing
1043300	Serious adverse drug reactions in elderly cancer patients in the oncology setting are not being regularly identified, evaluated and reported. <br/>When adverse events are reported for older cancer patients, the reports are often incomplete and hence causality assignment is delayed, leading to increased morbidity and mortality.<br/>A  clinically-based, hypothesis-driven approach to pharmacovigilance will improve the completeness of reporting and the assignment of causality, resulting in improved health outcomes for older cancer patients.<br/>In summary, I aim to 1) Identify, evaluate, and report on serious adverse reactions to drugs used in cancer patients age 65 and older;  2) Assess the completeness of adverse event reports for patients 65 years and older and  3) Assess both causality assignment and the timeliness of causality assignment in  patients <65 years with those >65 years
1043341	The Li laboratory is interested in dissection of molecular mechanisms that regulate cellular stress response and cell death signaling.  We have recently identified Cdk5 activator binding protein C53 as a novel regulator of cell cycle and DNA damage response.  We are currently investigating how C53 regulates normal cell cycle progression and DNA damage response. 
1043419	Dr. Green's research employs murine models of cholestatic liver disease and fatty liver disorders in order to determine the pathogenesis of liver injury, and  thus devise rational therapies for these common liver diseases.  In addition, he participates in clinical trials on the treatment of hepatic disorders with other members in the Division of Hepatology. 
1043419	Hepatology (liver)
1043458	Body imaging, Ultrasound (US)
1043560	Ethics, professionalism and communication in the healthcare setting.<br/>Achieving measurable efficacy, safety, efficiency and satisfaction in a complex healthcare delivery system.
1043570	1.  The role of EEG in the evaluation of children with febrile status epilepticus.  
2.  The classification and characterization of infantile epilepsies.
3.  The correlation between EEG findings and cognition.
4.  Epilepsy surgery in children.
1043582	Master of Science: Healthcare Quality and Patient Safety 2011
1043621	Neuroradiology
1043672	Neuroanesthesia
1043708	Menopause, Minimally invasive surgery, Perimenopause management, Vaginal pain, Vaginal plastic repairs
1043952	General pediatric endocrinology and diabetes patients with a specific interest in disorders of sexual development and puberty.
1044194	Thyroid disease, Fine needle aspiration thyroid nodules, pituitary disease
1044200	General neurologic disorders
1044214	My focus and expertise as a clinical psychologist is in the practice of cognitive-behavioral therapy (as clinician, instructor, and supervisor). Within that paradigm, my research and clinical interests are in the treatment of anxiety and mood disorders, particularly obsessive-compulsive disorder.  Also, I am interested in the use of technology for self-help and the treatment of mental health problems.
1044272	Susan Yount, Ph.D., is a licensed clinical health psychologist and associate professor in the Department of Medical Social Sciences (MSS), Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. Her research interests include the development and application of measures of quality of life, symptoms, and health status in chronic illness; and adjustment to and coping with chronic illness. Her clinical research interests include oncology and organ transplant as well as a range of other chronic illnesses.
1044275	Hematopathology<BR><BR><br/>Lymphoproliferative disorders
1044490	Benign breast disease, Breast cancer surgery, High risk breast disease, Surgical oncology
1044494	Dr. Lin has special interest in the mangement of prostate, kidney, and bladder cancers with an emphasis on robotic surgery.
1044534	Medical disorders of the breast, Primary care internal medicine, Women's health care
1044537	Advanced Laparoscopic Procedures, Gallstones, Hernia, Obesity Surgery, Pancreas
1044550	Human brain imaging of chronic pain conditions. Animal studies of crtical dynamics of pain.
1044559	clinical trial design, vaccines, epidemiological methods
1044682	Regional Anesthesia
1044711	Adrenal tumors, Female hernias, Galbladder disease, Gallstones, Incisional hernias, Laparoscopy, Minimally invasive endocrine surgery, Parathyroid Disease, Thyroid tumors, Ventral hernias
1044739	Hematopathology, leukemia, nucleoporins, NUP98
1044955	Calcium Disorders, Hyperparathyroidism, Metabolic Bone Diseases, Osteoporosis
1044980	Cancer genetics, Colon cancer
1045018	Gynecologic Imaging, Pelvic MRI, Body MRI, Hepatobiliary MRI, Computed Tomography, PET scanning
1045019	Cancer early detection, Colposcopy, Ovarian cancer
1045030	Articular cartilage repair, General orthopaedics, Shoulder problems / injuries, Sports medicine
1045124	My clinical interests are in pediatric neurocritical care including stroke, traumatic brain injury, refractory status epilepticus and the neurologic complications of critical illness. The activity of my research group is focused on the glial responses to traumatic brain injury and the role of activated glia in the mechanisms of epileptogenesis and blood brain barrier dysregulation following acute brain injury. Our clincal research is focused on the application of bioinformatics to pediatric critical care with the goal of developing fully integrated  real-time physiologic and laboratory data collection and analysis in the pediatric intensive care unit.
1045145	Atrial fibrillation, Biventricular pacing, Cardiac arrhythmias, Catheter ablation, Implantable defibrillators
1045159	Early detection, biomarkers, epigenetics, drug resistance, DNA methylation
1045163	Head & neck cancer, Lung cancer
1045197	Movement disorders including chorea, Dystonia, Essential tremor, Multiple systems atrophy (MSA), Myoclonus, Parkinson's disease, Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), Tics. Interest is focused on clinica management, clinical pharmacology, clinical trials desifn, experimental pharmacology
1045213	Mechanisms of action of the naturally occurring inhibitors of angiogenesis;<br/>endocrine therapy for breast cancer
1045293	Current research is focused on Interventional Spine Care.  <br/>Clinical interests include diagnosis and treatment of spine disorders, including cervical and lumbar degenerative disc disease, radicular pain/sciatica, facet joint mediated pain, and other causes.  Treatment is focused on rehabilitation, including physical therapy and occupational therapy. Complementary treatments offered include acupuncture and chiropractic.  All treatments are offered on site at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago.  Interventional spine procedures include cervical and lumbar epidural steroid injections/selective nerve root blocks, facet injections and radiofrequency neurotomy(rhizotomy), facet cyst aspiration/rupture, sacroiliac joint injections, discography, percutaneous disc decompression, and sympathetic blocks
1045433	Outcome based researches on educational interventions to create better physicians of the future.
1045466	Our laboratory investigates the role of the nuclear factor Ikaros in T cell development and leukemogenesis. Ikaros is a nuclear factor that is a component of two chromatin remodeling complexes associated with gene activation as well as gene repression.  Genetically engineered Ikaros null mice develop T cell leukemia with 100% penetrance suggesting that Ikaros is a tumor suppressor.  In addition, lack of Ikaros results in multiple defects in T cell development that include a decrease in the number of T cells, an increased potential to differentiate into the CD4 lineage and a complete lack of fetal T cell development. In addition, they are unable to undergo negative selection, a checkpoint that is required to prevent the inappropriate maturation of autoreactive T cells.  In order to determine mechanisms for Ikaros? role in T cell biology, we are studying the role of Ikaros in regulating Notch and TCR signaling pathways, as well as in regulating early developmental decisions from the level of early lymphoid progenitors.  We are also interested in investigating the role of Ikaros in regulation of T helper fate decisions during an immune response. 
1045574	I am interested in how early events and environments shape later outcomes of preterm births.  For example, babies who were small at birth seem to be at high risk for complications such as high blood pressure, diabetes and obesity in adulthood.  Why?  There are many theories, but a biological explanation is still missing.  I study prenatal environments such as maternal health, biological markers such as cord blood and placenta, and early neonatal experiences for clues as to and how they relate to later outcomes, especially obesity.  At present, I focus on outcomes during the neonatal period, but eventually I would like to follow growth and health of these babies into adulthood.
1046251	Major focus of my research program is a translational approach to study of valvular heart disease basic and clinical research.
1046467	Diseases of ear, Ear surgery, Otology
1046492	Ablations, Arrhythmias, Defibrillators, EP studies, Pacemakers, Syncope
1046519	Gene delivery, nuclear transport, intracellular trafficking of DNA, gene therapy
1046717	Dr. Trainor is a board certified in Pediatrics and Pediatric Emergency Medicine.  She is director of the M4 Pediatric Sub-internship for the Feinberg School of Medicine, and is in charge of the M4 electives in Pediatric medicine at Children's Memorial Hospital.  In addition, she is the Associate Fellowship Director in Pediatric Emergency Medicine.  Her primary research interests involve medical education and the use of simulation to teach medical students, residents, and fellows clinical pediatrics and pediatric emergency medicine.
1046736	Application of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation to treat pediatric diseases--cancers, hematologic and immunologic diseases. Expand the indications for Stem Cell transplantation as cellular therapy for other diseases/organ dysfunction.
1046741	Rheumatoid Arthritis, Psoriatic Arhritis (combined program with Dermatology), Spondyloarthopathies
1046744	My research examines the effects of prostheses and orthoses on human locomotion in order to increase understanding, establish efficacy, and improve effectiveness of prosthetic and orthotic interventions for people with disability.  
1046905	My research focuses on the role of secreted protein toxins on bacterial pathogenesis.  The toxins we study are  members of the MARTX family and are produced by Vibrio cholerae, a pathogen important for the diarrheal disease cholera, and Vibrio vulnificus, a pathogen that causes septicemia and necrotizing fasciitis from seafood consumption.  Our group studies both the role of these toxins in evasion of the innate immune response using mouse models and the mechanism of action of these toxins using a combination of cell biology, biochemistry, and structural biology.
1047087	Resident education, Student education
1047088	Neuroradiology
1047091	Hepatology
1047131	MaryBeth Lake, MD, a former chief resident at Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic (WPIC) at the University of Pittsburgh, is associate professor and the director of education in the Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, which is housed at Children?s Memorial Hospital. Prior to joining Northwestern and Children's Memorial in 2000, Dr. Lake worked briefly in the private sector providing inpatient, outpatient and partial hospitalization program services. She is a member of several regional and national professional organizations and was previously a member of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) Committee for Liaison with Primary Care. Dr. Lake is a co-author of the Concise Guide to Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, as well as other publications. In addition to her focus on graduate medical education, Dr. Lake has a special interest in family therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy. 
1047160	Healthcare ethics; Development of cultural competence in physical therapists; Provision of patient-centered physical therapy; Professional development of physical therapists
1047214	Laboratory investigations of the molecular basis of disease progression in myeloid malignancies.
1047214	Leukemia, Lymphoma, Myeloma
1047272	General gastroenterology
1047289	Coronary disease, Lipid management, Prevention of heart disease, Preventive cardiology
1047291	Cellular immunology, macrophage-virus interactions, apoptosis induction
1047292	Dr. Weiss is Director of the medical school's Institute for Healthcare Studies.  The Institute conducts research and education in the area of health care quality, patient safety, healthcare equity, and policy.  Dr. Weiss' research includes more than 100 publications in the area with a focus no chronic respiratory disease and clinical guidlines.  Dr. Weiss is involved in the development of national healthcare policy related to measurement of physician quality of care.
1047321	Primary Research Interests Focus Upon Pediatric Kidney Disease Specific to:<br/>(1) Methylated arginine derivatives and kidney disease progression;<br/>(2) Methylated arginine derivatives and cardiovascular remodeling;  <br/>(3) Proteomic markers for prediction of kidney disease progression;<br/>(4) Use of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) for undiagnosed hypertension and progressive loss of nocturnal BP dip;<br/>(5) Hemodynamic and rheologic responses during hemodialysis, including use of conventional and non-conventional markers in evaluation of hypervolemic states in end stage kidney disease.
1047445	We are interested in the universal patterns of organization of complex systems in nature.  <br/>Previous work includes the  mathematical modeling of cardiac arrhythmias, the study of molecular motors and ion channels as  stochastic ratchets, cooperative role of nonlinearities and noise in neural coding, self-organization and collective phenomena in ants swarms, brains and communities of natural and artificial agents.
1047485	Headaches, Primary care internal medicine
1047485	Health care policy<br/>Health care operational and financial administration
1047547	Pediatric liver disease
1047657	I am a pediatric neuropsychologist and conduct clinical neuropsychological evaluations on school age children and adolescents.  My clinical interests include brain tumor and other cancers, brain injury, solid organ transplant, lupus, encephalitis, epilepsy, sickle cell, stroke, genetic disorders, as well as learning disability and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).  My research is primarily on neurocognitive outcomes in patients with liver disease and liver transplant.
1047664	Dr. Cartland is the Director of Child Health Data Lab at Children's Memorial Research Center, where her time is split between epidemiological and evaluation research. Dr. Cartland is a public policy analyst with twenty years of experience working on child and adolescent health and welfare issues. Her areas of expertise include health care financing, community-based interventions, and child and adolescent injury. Much of her current work involves expanding the capacity of the State of Illinois to conduct public health surveillance for children and adolescents.  ------    <br/>Monthly CHDL Data Briefs can be found at http://www.childrensmrc.org/chdl/Publications/.
1047667	Characterization by x-ray computed tomography (microtomography), x-ray phase contrast imaging, x-ray microbeam diffraction, synchrotron x-radiation of mineralized tissue in mammals and echinoderms.
1047682	Myeloma, Transplantation
1047683	Myeloma, Transplantation
1047866	Obstetric anesthesiology
1047935	Cytotoxic killing mechanisms, Apoptosis, Tumor Immunology, Neuroimmunoendocrinology.
1047949	RNA interference - Molecular biology and Therapeutics
1047986	Pregnancy outcomes, infectious disease in pregnancy
1047987	Pathogenesis of preterm labor, infection in pregnancy, prenatal genetic diagnosis
1048034	My lab studies the structure and function of ion channels, a family of membrane proteins that play many key roles in neuroscience and which are a major target of essential drugs used in clinical medicine. About a third of all genes in a typical genome code for membrane proteins, yet we know very little about their structure and function. Because ion movement across membranes can be measured with exquisite sensitivity, ion channels have always been at the vanguard of functional studies of membrane proteins, and as a consequence we have learned a great deal about how they function. Until recently, however, ion channels, like so many other membrane proteins, had proven very difficult to study at the structural level. The recent high-resolution description of several ion channels has opened up the field of structure-function in ion channels, and we are now in a position to ask detailed questions about how function is achieved through structure in this essential class of proteins.<br/>How do voltage-dependent ion channels sense the membrane potential? Through what structural rearrangements do these channels achieve voltage-dependent ion flow across the membrane? How can highly dynamic proteins maintain such outstanding control of what sorts of ions are allowed to pass? These are some of the questions that we attempt to answer.
1048036	Our research focuses on molecular and cellular mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease. In particular, we investigate the beta-secretase enzyme BACE1, which initiates the production of the beta-amyloid peptide that plays a central early role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's. We use a combination of biochemical, cell culture and animal model approaches to investigate the role of BACE1 in health and disease.  
1048050	Sleep disorders, epilepsy, narcolepsy, sleep apnea, restless legs, clinical pharmacology
1048055	Arterial dissections, Carotid artery disease, Cerebral hemorrhage, Familial strokes, Inherited strokes, Mini-strokes, Stroke, Subarachnoid hemorrhage, Vascular dementia
1048162	Contraception and Family Planning
1048277	Female bladder problems, Female pelvic floor disorders and pain, Female pelvic surgery, Gynecologic surgery, Recurrent bladder infections, Urinary incontinence, Urogynecology, Vaginal prolapse, Minimally invasive surgery
1048362	Magnetic resonance imaging, kidney, renal medulla, blood flow, oxygenation, acute renal failure, hypertension, endothelial dysfunction
1048363	Magnetic Resonance Imaging
1048496	Interventional Cardiology, angioplasty, stents, treatment of acute myocardial infarction, angiogenesis, valvular heart disease
1048574	The laboratory is interested in determining the role of intermediate filament proteins (IF) in prostate cancer. There are two main goals. First, can the development and progression of prostate cancer and patient outcome be determined be determined by the IF expression profile. This hypothesis is based on the observations that expression patterns of IF change when cells differentiate. Second, does the organization of nuclear lamins in prostate cancer cells affect DNA replication and transcription. We have previously determined that lamins directly bind proliferating cell nuclear antigen and expression of dominant negative mutant lamins affects DNA replication. Furthermore, we have shown that lamin expression affects RNA Pol II transcription. Nuclear microdomains can also influence the transcription potential of chromosomes in the region.
1048590	PCOS (poly cystic ovary syndrome)
1048590	Phenotyp-genotype studies in PCOS, mapping PCOS susceptibility genes, Specialized Center of Research (SCOR) on sex and gender factors affecting women's health, fetal origins of PCOS
1048758	Sepsis, macrophage, endotoxin tolerance, lipopolysaccharide, cell biology, signal transduction, MODS, surgical infections, critical illness 
1048762	Cells contact and communicate with their neighbors via specialized cell surface receptors.  This intimate exchange of information controls morphogenetic events during embryonic development and maintains tissue organization in adults.  Birth defects and cancer commonly result when cells fail to recognize and respond appropriately to their environment.  The work in my laboratory is guided by the hypothesis that epithelial cells receive and interpret contextual information through the coordination of adhesion and signaling receptor systems present on the cell surface.  To test this idea, we manipulate the ability of epithelial cells to interact with one another and measure their capacity to transduce intracellular signals that regulate cell fate and behavior.  In parallel, we assess the potential of cell surface signaling receptors to alter the manner in which epithelial cells adhere to their partners.  A three-dimensional in vitro model of the human epidermis is used to help define these adhesion-signaling networks during epithelial tissue morphogenesis. 
1048927	Comprehensive Ophthalmology, Meidcal Ethics
1049188	Advanced laparoscopic surgery, In vitro fertilization, Infertility, Polycystic ovary syndrome
1049211	Primary interests are looking at the use of mindfulness meditation within an intensive chronic pain management program.
1049219	n/a
1049330	Gastrointestinal Cancer Surgery, Melanoma / Sarcoma, Pancreatic / Liver cancer surgery, Surgical Oncology
1049332	Primary interests include:  pediatric radiology, cross sectional imaging, education, digital teaching files and website design and management
1049389	Pain medicine
1049440	Interventional spine procedures, Spine Pain Management, Neuroradiology, CT Angiography, CT/MR Perfusion, MR Spectroscopy, 3D Imaging
1049457	Facial plastic, Facial reconstruction, Facial surgery
1049458	Patient safety, Health Services, Operations, Quality
1049461	Anal incontinence, Benign anorectal disorders, Colon and rectal cancer, Colon and rectal surgery, Hereditary colon cancer syndromes, Ileal pouch surgery, Inflammatory bowel disease, Laparoscopy
1049467	Retina, synaptic transmission, glutamate, vision
1049549	Pancreatic cancer, cancer biology, growth factors, novel therapeutics, cachexia, eicosanoid metabolism
1049606	Dr. Kumar is interested in asthma health disparities. He is particularly interested in the effects of ther interaction of genetic factors and early life exposures on the development of asthma and allergies.
1049626	Difficult Airway Predication, Obstetric Anesthesia, Intravascular Volume Monitoring and Management
1049668	My clinical interests are neonatal intensive care and neurodevelopmental outcomes of NICU graduates.
1049685	sickle cell pain management, hypertension screening in the emergency department, pain management, triage systems
1049703	Dr. Yan is a cardiovascular epidemiologist with a background in demography and health economics. Her main research interests are prevention and control of cardiovascular diseases (including diabetes).  She has been involved in investigating associations of major modifiable risk factors and psychosocial factors with long-term coronary and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. She is highly interested in and committed to translating best evidence into policy and practice globally, especially in China. She is currently the head of the Research and Development Division at the George Institute for International Health, China (www.george.org.cn) and the director of the NHLBI/UHG Center of Excellence for Chronic Disease Prevention and Control in China.
1049781	My research interests lie in the area of neurodegenerative disease, particularly Alzheimer's disease and related disorders such as the frontotemporal lobar degenerations and motor neuron disease. My focus is on the role of genetics and morphologic abnormalities such as parenchymal vacuolation and ubiquitin, TDP-43, and tau positive inclusions in frontotemporal lobar degenerations and related disorders such as primary progressive aphasia, progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, and motor neuron disease-associated dementia. In addition, I continue my role of Neuropathology Core leader in the NIH-supported Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer Disease Center at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. Within the framework of the Core-related Laboratory for Cognitive and Molecular Morphometry, the Neuropathology Core is actively involved in assisting basic science researchers investigate the applicability of their findings to human tissue.
1049798	Electroencephalography, Epilepsy, Seizure disorders
1049802	Limb Reconstruction, Metastic Disease, Musculoskeletal Oncology, Soft Tissue Sarcoma
1049813	Adult and Pediatric Spine Disorders, Cervical and Degenerative, Minimally Invasive Procedures, Scolosis and Deformity
1049887	Functional outcomes in patients with amputation and cancer
1049949	pulmonary embolism, deep venous thrombosis, cardiovascular imaging
1049950	Cardiac Transplantation, Heart Failure, Signal Transduction (research)
1050035	Auditory nociception, brain evolution and development, mechanosensory transduction
1050041	Interventional Radiology including oncologic management and venous access.
1050056	Interventional Radiology
1050146	Ms. Trivedi has a special research interest in how hereditary cancer may affect the social and reproductive options of young women at high risk for cancer.
1050169	My interests are in clinical outcomes following anesthesia and surgery.
1050189	Air pollution, ischemic cardiovascular events, acute lung injury, adipokines
1050264	Neuroanesthesiology, Pain Medicine
1050302	Our laboratory studies the neuroinvasive herpesviruses with a focus on the molecular mechanisms by which these pathogens propagate and disseminate within the nervous system. The outcome of infection is closely tied to the route the viruses spread within the nervous system, with outcomes typically relative benign but sometimes producing blindness and lethal encephalitis. We use a combination of live-cell fluorescence microscopy, molecular genetics and neuronal cell biology to examine the dynamics of viral particle assembly and intracellular axon transport. These molecular mechanisms are then examined in the larger context of neuroinvasion and pathogenesis. Two long-term goals of our research are to identify novel targets in the viral infectious cycle for development of antivirals, and engineering recombinant viral particles as effective gene delivery vehicles.<br/>(Keywords: neuron, axon, microtubule, cytoskeleton, dynein, kinesin, transport, virus, virion, herpesvirus, herpes, capsid, tegument, egress, nucleus, GFP, BAC, bacmid, recombination, GS1783)
1050367	Interested in the use of high-fidelity medical simulation to improve individual and team performance in acute emergencies, in particular, the amount and frequency of training needed.
1050433	Dr. Urbanek's research focuses on the identification of susceptibility genes for complex diseases.  Her approach to this research is to use family based gene-mapping techniques and population based association studies in conjunction with molecular techniques to identify and verify genes and pathways contributing to the pathogenesis of genetically complex diseases. Specifically she is carrying out studies to identify susceptibility genes for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) that map to Chr19p3.13.  She has previously shown that this region shows linkage and association with PCOS in a large set of families.   Other projects focus on identifying candidate genes for gestational diabetes and  glycemic control during pregnancy,  and identifying genetic variation contributing to extreme obesity
1050433	Genetics of complex diseases, PCOS, Obesity, Metabolic syndrome, diabetes
1050501	HIV infection, Orthopedic-related Infections, Travel-related infections
1050564	My research focuses on molecular evolutionary mechanisms of HIV/SIV in host defense, HIV susceptibility to HIV infection and disease progression, and antiretroviral drug resistance and genetic variation in HIV. Researches include next generation sequencing of HIV and host genes to understand how host genetics and immunity affects HIV infection and dynamics, and developing an effective diagnostic system to measure of HIV antigens by using nanotechnology.
1050565	Adolescent depression and suicide, Adult depression, Anxiety disorders, Obsessive Compulsive disorder, Panic disorders
1050663	The mission of the Center for Global Initiatives is to create self-sustaining programs that improve access to healthcare in underserved communities throughout the world. 
1050725	Head and Neck Radiology
1050787	The principal focus of this laboratory is the examination of the spatial and temporal patterns of motor cortical activity preceding voluntary movement and the function of this activity in shaping and controlling movement initiation.  In particular we are interested in the function of the primary and supplementary motor areas and their interactions with the basal-ganglia in the feedforward and feedback control of movement.  We use a variety of non-invasive techniques to assess these systems in humans such as:  high-resolution EEG recordings and MRI-based source reconstruction techniques, transcranial magnetic stimulation, peripheral nerve stimulation, multi-channel EMG, and measures of movement kinematics and kinetics.  Experiments are currently being conducted to examine the role of the primary and supplementary motor areas and brainstem in the preparation and release of voluntary movements.<br/>Neurological diseases that affect the basal ganglia have a significant impact upon the function of the primary and supplementary motor areas.  For this reason, our research is also focused on the assessment of motor cortical function in neurological disorders such as Parkinson?s disease and dystonia.  This work is conducted in collaboration with The Parkinson?s Disease and Movement Disorders Center at Northwestern.  We are currently examining the control of repetitive movements in patients with Parkinson?s disease and the effects of dopaminergic replacement therapy and deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (a neurosurgical treatment for advanced Parkinson?s disease) on the control of these movements.
1050876	I am interested in developing and translating biomedical engineering techniques to rehabilitation/therapy application and to understand basic neuromechanisms underlying movement disorder following stroke. More specifically, I am interested in developing new methods in the fields of functional brain imaging and modeling based signal processing to further understand the neuromechanisms underlying movement disorder following stroke. By combining these basic understandings with advanced biomedical engineering techniques, such as brain machine interface, I hope to regain the functional control of the impaired hand in more severely impaired stroke survivors.
1050919	Major Psychotic Disorders, Women's Mental Health
1050964	Pediatric Cardiology, Electrophysiology, Education, Syncope, arrhythmias, sudden cardiac death, ventricular fibrillation
1051094	I am interested in child and adolescent well-being as fostered by community conditions.  As a sociologist I work to understand environmental, cultural, institutional and social influences on child and adolescent well being in low resourced and minority communities.  I have experience and interest in community engaged scholarship.
1051123	skin inflammation research, melanoma immunotherapy research, skin neuroinflammation research, clinical treatment of general dermatology
1051160	Cardiovascular outcomes, Quality of Care, atrial fibrillation, ablation, defibrillators, anticoagulants, pacing
1051160	Cardiovascular outcomes, atrial fibrillation, implantable devices, quality of care, ablation, anticoagulants, antiarrhythmic drugs
1051248	Pediatric Pathology<BR><BR><br/>Wilms tumors, germ cell tumors, genitourinary development
1051280	MRI, stroke, perfusion, angiography, 
1051295	Why do some premature infants experience adverse outcomes, while others do not? Dr. Mestan is an attending neonatologist at Children's Memorial and Northwestern's Prentice Women's Hospital, whose research focuses on identifying the environmental and genetic markers for premature birth and its complications. Understanding these markers could allow clinicians to predict which babies are most at risk for preterm birth and its complications, such as chronic lung disease, poor growth, and developmental problems in children.
1051375	prevention / reduction of postoperative nausea/vomiting and pain, Sports medicine principles applied to musical performance and training
1051378	Research interest is focused on the evaluation of electronic systems and their abilities to support safe and efficient clinical care and in the design of new electronic systems.
1051378	The impact of focused clinical decision support at the point of care.
1051485	Our laboratory studies the regulation of DNA Replication during the cell cycle. 
1051485	We study how stem cell division and differentiation are coordinated.  Cell division and differentiation are in many ways mutually exclusive. Most cells stop dividing as they adopt a specific fate, while relatively undifferentiated stem cells are able to divide throughout the lifetime of the organism. Cancer cells are characterized by both poorly controlled proliferation and a loss of the differentiated phenotype. During regeneration, quiescent differentiated cells revert to a stem cell phenotype and begin dividing anew.  Our research focuses on hematopoietic stem cells, germline stem cells, and myocardial stem cells.  Our central approach is to construct knockout mouse models to study proteins that regulate stem cell division and differentiation patterns.  We also study the mechanism of nuclear reprogramming using Xenopus eggs.
1051542	pancreas, cancer, transgenic, mice, models, detection, chemoprevention, diet, immunology, therapy
1051571	Dr. Boberg has spent 12 years studying the development and evaluation of computer-based systems for patient education and support.  His research career spans basic, clinical, and health services/outcomes research.  He is author of over 25 peer-reviewed publications and book chapters, and has made dozens of presentations across the United States, Canada, and Europe.  Since 1999, he has been a member of NIH Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR), NCI, and NIDA study sections.  Dr. Boberg's research interests focus on needs assessment and design of web-based interventions to meet patient and caregiver needs.
1051571	patient needs assessment, web-based patient information and support
1051610	The research interests of my group are in the field of cytokine-signaling in malignant cells.  We have previously identified and characterized several novel signaling cascades activated by the Type I interferon receptor downstream of Jak-kinases in leukemia and other neoplastic cells, including the insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-pathway, the Crk-pathway and the p38 Map kinase signaling cascade.  These studies have been expanded in efforts to determine the mechanisms by which chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) cells become refractory to the antiproliferative effect of interferons and the mechanisms of synergy between interferon and STI571 (Gleevec) in CML cells.  We have also recently identified the kinase that mediates phosphorylation of Stat1 on serine 727 as the protein kinase C-delta (PKC&#61540;).<br/>Other research areas in which our laboratory is actively engaged are the mechanisms of signal transduction of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) and arsenic trioxide in acute promyelocytic leukemia.  We have recently shown that ATRA activates the Rac1/p38 Map kinase pathway and that pharmacological inhibition of this pathway enhances its effects on leukemia cells, raising the prospect of development of translational studies combining ATRA with pharmacological inhibitors of Map kinases for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia.  Finally, our group also studies the signaling mechanisms of regulation of normal hematopoiesis by myelosuppressive cytokines, including interferons, tumor necrosis factor-alfa and transforming growth factor-beta. 
1051610	chronic leukemias, multiple myeloma, non-hodgkin's lymphoma
1051734	The laboratory has a long standing interest in the biology of epithelial stem cells. To this end, in collaboration with Tung-Tien Sun (NYU Medical School) we have identified and characterized epithelial stem cells of the epidermis, corneal epithelium and hair follicle <br/>     Another research focus of the laboratory is the characterization of epithelial-enriched  microRNAs (miRNAs) to understand how these miRNAs regulate epithelial stem cell behavior and epithelial differentiation. We have demonstrated the presence of several miRNAs that are specifically localized in the corneal epithelium of adult mice; other miRNAs are found in many stratified squamous epithelia including the epidermis. Recently we have found that the lipid phosphatase SHIP2 is a target for miRNA- 205 (miR-205), which is expressed in many stratified squamous epithelia. We have also found that miR-184, which is exclusively found in the corneal epithelium, antagonizes miR-205 to help maintain the levels of SHIP2. This is the first example of a miRNA negatively regulating another to maintain levels of a target protein. 
1051743	Radiation biology, nanotechnology, molecular biology, gene regulation, cancer biology, X-ray fluorescence microscopy
1051757	Neuropsychological Testing, Geriatrics, Medical Rehabilitation Populations, LD/ADHD, Nervous System Diseases, Alcohol/Substance Abuse, Bariatrics
1051857	My overall interests lie in the translation of evidence-based practices into integrated clinical care. More specifically, I am involved in clinical, training, and programmatic activities designed to extend the access of cognitive-behavioral therapies to individuals with psychotic and bipolar disorders.
1051986	Criminal Competency, Disability, Fitness for Duty, Race Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, Violence and Risk Assessment
1052027	Breast Imaging including ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging and breast intervention.
1052037	Dr. Kibbe is an Associate Professor of Surgery at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Division of Vascular Surgery as well as Staff Physician and Director of the Vascular Laboratory at the Jesse Brown VA Medical Center.  She received her MD degree from the University of Chicago in 1994, completed her general surgery residency at the University of Pittsburgh in 2002, and vascular surgery fellowship at Northwestern University in 2003.  She is board certified in both General Surgery and Vascular Surgery.  She received her RVT certification in 2003.<br/>Dr. Kibbe?s clinical efforts focus on open and endovascular surgery, with a particular interest on carotid and peripheral arterial endovascular interventions.  Her research interests focus on nitric oxide vascular biology.  Specifically, she is studying how nitric oxide inhibits vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation by focusing on the role of nitric oxide in regulating the cell cycle, the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, and apoptosis.  She is also developing and testing nitric oxide-based pharmacological approaches to inhibit neointimal hyperplasia following vascular bypass grafting.  Her hope is to have a positive effect on patency rates of both vein and prosthetic bypass conduits, thereby effecting millions of patients that undergo coronary artery or peripheral artery bypass procedures.
1052057	Interested in understanding the informed consent process around genetic research and predictive genetic testing. Additionally, I am interested in how patients choose to use information from predictive testing to manage their health.  Also, interested in understanding what the general patient population understands about genetic testing, genetic research, and personalized genetic medicine and how best this information can be communicated.
1052125	Emergency Medicine, Medical Toxicology
1052190	Dr. Chetkovich practices general neurology at Northwestern Memorial Hospital and at the Northwestern Medical Faculty Foundation Neurology Clinic.  Dr. Chetkovich?s current research focuses on the molecular mechanisms that underlie the targeting of ion channels to synapses and other specialized areas of the dendrites of neurons.  In particular, the lab is interested in the synaptic targeting of ligand and voltage-gated ion channels, molecules responsible for controlling communication in the brain of mammals.  The laboratory?s approach utilizes a variety of cellular, molecular and electrophysiological tools to address the mechanisms by which ion channels are targeted to dendrites, as well as the role that this targeting plays in synaptic structure and function as it pertains to epilepsy and brain injury, as well as in disorders of learning and memory such as Autism and Alzheimer?s disease.
1052193	Treatment of leukemias, myelodsyplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative disorders.  Management of non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin lymphomas.
1052202	Neurovascular Critical CAre, Stroke
1052228	College Mental Health, General Adult Psychiatry
1052334	Both my clinical and research interests are in nutrition of critically ill neonates, including early institution of parenteral nutrition, use of human milk, and the effect of early growth patterns on subsequent health and neurodevelopment.
1052335	Dr. Farrow's research focuses on the tissue-specific and developmental regulation of phosphodiesterases (PDEs) in the pulmonary vasculature, both in normal transition after birth, as well as in the context of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN) and bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). Dr. Farrow?s laboratory has demonstrated that exposure to high levels of oxygen, which is a common treatment for both PPHN and BPD, leads to increased PDE5 expression and activity in the pulmonary vascular smooth muscle of neonatal sheep and mice. This increased PDE5 expression and activity leads to decreased pulmonary vascular relaxation in response to nitric oxide, a common pulmonary vasodilator.  In the future, new drugs such as PDE5 inhibitors or anti-oxidants may play an important role in the treatment of infants with PPHN or BPD.
1052350	Dr. Baker?s research has focused on access to health care, racial and ethnic disparities in care, health communication, and interventions to improve quality of care for chronic diseases.  In the area of access to care and health care delivery for vulnerable populations, his interests include health literacy, language barriers, the effect of lack of insurance on health care use and health outcomes, and racial and ethnic differences in health care use and outcomes.  He has led studies examining many aspects of quality, including whether hospital mortality ?report cards? lead to changes in market share for hospitals and improvements in outcomes, the effect of disease management programs for patients with heart failure, and the effectiveness of learning collaboratives.  His current work is examining quality measurement and quality improvement using electronic health record systems.
1052350	My research has focused on access to health care, racial and ethnic disparities in care, health communication (including health literacy and language as barriers to care), and quality of care for chronic diseases.  I was Principal Investigator for the Literacy in Health Care Study, the first study of the prevalence of inadequate health literacy, and Principal Investigator for the Prudential Health Literacy Study, the largest study ever conducted of the relationship between literacy, health status, and use of health care services.  I was also the Principal Investigator for a study examining health outcomes for the uninsured among a national sample of adults in late middle-age.  In the area of quality of care, I served as the Associate Project Director for the AHCPR-funded Heart Failure guideline and was lead author for a series of manuscripts in JAMA on quality of care for patients with heart failure. I was Principal Investigator for the largest study conducted to date to determine whether publicly reporting hospital mortality rates led to improvements in outcomes. <br> My current projects are examining 1) the relationship between reading comprehension, cognitive function, and mortality among the elderly, 2) methods to improve health communication through multimedia, 3) the relationship between race, ethnicity, and language and quality of care for patients hospitalized with myocardial infarction, heart failure, and pneumonia, 4) racial/ethnic differences in subjective versus objective health status (i.e., physical functioning) measures, and 5) use of electronic health records to measure quality of care and to improve healthcare quality and safety.
1052351	My current research efforts employ several innovative methods for quantifying multi-joint upper extremity movement control during both postural and movement tasks in individuals with stroke. I utilize the same quantitative methods to instrument direct impairment-targeted interventions in an effort to elucidate neural mechanisms underlying impaired movement and subsequent restoration of normal movement in individuals with stroke. This research is in collaboration with Julius P.A. Dewald, PT, PhD and is further augmented by collaborations with colleagues with expertise in neural imaging techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging, electroencephalography, and transcranial magnetic stimulation. I also specialize in the training of Physical and Occupational Therapists in the administration of impairment, activity, and participation limitation assessments for individuals with stroke and the subsequent processes necessary for standardized delivery of assessments in clinical trials. Through my clinical research efforts I hope to contribute to the evolution of rehabilitation medicine and science by advancing neurological rehabilitation principles and techniques. The key component most likely to impact rehabilitation in this magnitude is the elucidation of the neurological underpinnings responsible for movement discoordination and through the subsequent development of more effective rehabilitation therapies for individuals with functionally debilitating movement impairments.
1052368	Blood Bank   Hemostasis-Coagulation<BR><BR><br/>Our laboratory focuses on the mechanisms by which prostate cancer cells invade surrounding tissues and spread to distant sites in the body, leading to prostate cancer morbidity and death. We have characterized prostate cancer cell lines and found that the ras homolog RhoA and the nuclear transcription factor NF-kappaB are active and necessary for highly invasive prostate cancer cell behavior. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) may promote tumor progression and stimulate tumor growth and angiogenesis. We have found that co-cultures with monocyte-derived THP-1 and U-937 cells or peripheral blood monocytes stimulated PC-3, DU145 and LNCaP prostate cancer cell basement membrane invasion. The monocyte-derived cells also stimulate prostate cancer cell NF-kappaB activity.  Prostate cancer cell invasion and NF-kappaB activity in the co-cultures is inhibited by dominant negative I-kappaBalpha transfection or treatment with biochemical NF-kappaB inhibitors. These studies provide evidence that human monocyte-derived cells cross-communicate with prostate cancer cells and stimulate cancer cell invasion requiring cancer cell NF-kappaB activity. This model has the potential to identify treatments that may target the effect of monocyte-derived cells on cancer cell invasion and progression.  By identifying the mediators of prostate cancer cell invasion and metastasis, we hope to discover critical steps of cancer cell invasion and metastasis and find targeted strategies to block malignant prostate cancer progression.
1052521	General Gastroenterology
1052551	Botox, Chemical Peels, Collagen, Cosmetics Surgery, Excisional Surgery for atypical moles, Fat Transplantation, Laser Surgery, Liposuction, Melanoma Surgery, MOHS Surgery for the removal of basal and squamous cell cancers
1052573	Medical education, faculty development, effective teaching and learning, education measurement and evaluation
1052623	Dr. Kielb's clinical interests include female urology, pelvic floor dysfunction, vaginal prolpase, male and female urinary incontinence, and neurourology/urodynamics. She also has interests in minimally invasive/laparoscopic surgery, robotic surgery, sacral nerve stimulator therapy, and orthotopic neobladder construction.
1052633	Botox, Collagen, Cosmetic Surgery, Excision of atypical moles, Fat transplantation, Glycolic Peels, Laser Surgery, Liposuction, Melanoma Surgery, MOHS Surgery
1052665	consultative cardiology, echocardiography, women's cardiovascular health
1052726	Epidemiologic studies of diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular disease, fitness, and autonomic function.
1052740	Prion proteins are capable of existing in multiple stable conformations, at least one of which is infectious. It is generally accepted that prion (PrPSc) is the responsible agent for the devastating neurodegenerative disorders known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies or prion diseases. Our laboratory is interested in using yeast and other model organisms to understand how a prion protein acquires its infectious prion conformations and how such conformations are maintained in vivo. Our ultimate goal is to dissect the initiation and propagation processes of prionogenesis, and to identify important cellular factors required in each of these processes
1052793	I currently have three primary lines of research interests.  <br/>Gymnastics:<br/>Development and analysis of the Gymnastics Functional Measurement Tool (GFMT). The GFMT is a reliable and valid field test for assessing the physical fitness levels of high level gymnasts.  I am currently researching its ability to be a predictor of gymnastics injury.<br/>Development of a Men's Gymnastics Functional Measurement Tool<br/>Analysis of injury occurrence in women's Division 1 college gymnastics<br/>Performing Arts:  I am currently looking at the jump landing mechanics in professional dances in an effort to decrease knee injuries.<br/>Orthopedic Rehabilitation:<br/>I am doing an outcomes analysis of 3 common rehabilitation treatments for Achilles Tendonopathy
1052813	developmental neurobiology<br/>molecular diagnostics<br/>clinical pathology<br/>Research Interests <BR> <BR><br/>Our major research interest is understanding the factors that control cell proliferation and differentiation in the developing mammalian central nervous system. Although the mechanisms that regulate cell proliferation during neural development are poorly understood, studies in other tissues suggest that loss of normal cell polarity and tissue architecture play crucial regulatory roles in cell proliferation and cancer. Our most recent work suggests that beta catenin, an integral component of the adherens junction, can regulate cell cycle re-entry and differentiation in the developing mammalian brain. Transgenic mice expressing a truncated, stabilized form of beta catenin develop massively enlarged brains with increased cerebral cortical surface area and folds resembling sulci and gyri of higher mammals. Understanding the biology of epithelial organization can lend insight onto the regulation of proliferation during neural development and ultimately reveal mechanisms underlying developmental brain disorders and tumors in the central nervous system.
1052862	Dr. Jacobsohn is an attending in the Stem Cell Transplant Program at Children's Memorial Hospital.  He is actively involved in clinical research in the area of stem cell transplantation.  His main interests are graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and reduced intensity transplantation.  He is involved in the conduct and design of novel clinical trials to prevent and treat graft-versus-host disease.  For example, he currently heads a national, multi-institutional trial, through the Pediatric Blood and Marrow Transplant Consortium, to treat children with chronic GVHD with pentostatin.  Dr. Jacobsohn is also leading a novel transplant protocol at Children's Memorial Hospital that utilizes photopheresis post-transplant to prevent graft-versus-host disease.  In addition, he is involved with the NIH Consortium for Chronic GVHD, specifically leading an effort to design and validate grading criteria for pediatric patients on chronic GVHD clinical trials.  He has numerous publications in the field of stem cell transplantation and GVHD.
1052876	Airway Management, Cardiothoracic Anesthesiology, Regional Anesthesiology
1052935	Religion and Bioethics. Fertility Preservation. Genetic Medicine.
1053088	Breast cancer has a high propensity to metastasis to the lymph nodes, lung, liver, brain and bone leading to patient death within 1-5 years after the first metastasis.  The 5 year survival rate of breast cancer patients with localized disease is 98%, while the survival rate of patients with distant metastasis is only 27%.  Approximately 10-20% of breast cancer patients have brain metastases.  Brain metastases are viewed as a late complication of breast cancer for which few effective treatment options exist.  Therefore, resolving the mechanisms of metastasis to the brain is clinically important.  We are focusing our research on the proteoglycan receptors syndecan-1 and -4.  Syndecan-1 expression has been reported to be a predictor of disease free survival and overall survival of breast cancer patients and expression of both syndecan-1 and -4 is associated with increased growth rate in breast tumors.  A direct connection between these receptors and brain metastasis has not yet been shown.  We hypothesize that syndecan-1 and/or -4 are expressed in breast cancer brain metastases and the primary tumor, and that these genes will be markers for breast cancer metastasis to the brain. This may lead to development of new biomarkers for breast cancer metastasis to the brain.
1053089	Microbiology/Virology <BR><BR><br/>Molecular diagnostics, mechanisms of bacterial antibiotic resistance
1053099	.
1053305	I am interested in signal transduction in cancer biology, development of new strategies for cancer prevention and identification of novel targets for better treatment. Currently my studies are focused on different pathways in<br/>response of keratinocytes to ultraviolet (UV) irradiation and development of novel chemopreventive agents against UV-induced skin cancer.
1053369	Our research is focused on issues of immune regulation. A long-standing effort has been to understand the how IL-4 is regulated in T and mast cells. We have identified that Ikaros, a transcription factor that regulates chromatin conformation, has distinct cell-type specific effects on the IL-4 gene locus in these cells. We are trying to understand the underlying mechanism of this unique repression of transcription in mast cells and activation of transcription in T cells.<br/>Another major project involves the study of mast cells in the autoimmune diseases MS and type 1 diabetes. Althoug well-established mediators of allergic responses, mast cells are potent sources of many immunomodulatory molecules cells that can modulate disease course. Using mast cell-deficient mice, we have established that mast cells are required for fulminant EAE (MS) and NOD mouse diabetes. We are investigating the mechanism of action of these cells in disease pathogenesis.
1053382	I work on modeling complex systems with an emphasis on biological and social systems. I am interested in understanding the relationship between the network of interactions between the units of the system and the function the system wants to perform. <br/>In the case of biological systems, I am interested in developing systems level phenomenological theories for cellular processes that are generalizable and have predictive power. <br/>In the case of social systems, I am interested in understanding the scientific process, how high quality research arises and how to locate and evaluate high quality research. 
1053420	Research:Project to Improve Symptoms and Mood after Spinal Cord Injury (PrISMS)<br/>Five year, multi-site double-blind randomized control trial
2006-present<br/>Clinical: Medical psychiatry including consultation for and treatment of psychiatric conditions in the setting of co-occurring medical conditions such as spinal cord injury, stroke, cancer, organ transplantation. Forensic psychiatry, both civil and criminal issues, including malpractice, disability, competency, and mitigation.
1053631	Women's Health, primary care, osteoporosis.
1053660	General Surgical Pathology and Urological Surgical Pathology<br/>Diagnosis of genital urinary cancers including prostate, bladder, kidney, testis and other GU organs<br/>Immunohistochemistry<BR><BR><br/>Pathogenesis of prostate cancer, kidney cancer and bladder cancer<br/>Identification of new molecular markers of GU cancers<br/>Solid tumor banking for biological studies
1053762	Mood Disorders, Depression, Treatment and Outcome, Remission, Treatment of Depression Subtypes.
1053859	My area of academic interest focuses on pediatric neurocritical care especially as it pertains to epilepsy, status epilepticus, coma, brain injury, and neurophysiology.
1053905	Dr. Catalona is currently conducting research into the genetics of prostate cancer which could lead to new tests for the disease as well as possible new means of treating or preventing prostate cancer. He specializes in prostate cancer surgery and is recognized as an expert in performing the 'nerve-sparing' radical prostatectomy that can preserve sexual potency.
1053924	Disability Research
1053926	1. Long-term cellular and molecular consequences of early-life seizures
2. Inflammation and immunity in epileptic brain
3. Novel therapies to block epileptogenesis in genetic models of childhood epilepsy
1053946	My lab has two main research lines: one is cellular neurophysiology, with particular emphasis on the mechanisms of action potential generation and propagation and on the role of dendrites in post synaptic signal integration.<br/>The second research line of the lab focuses on the role of ion channels in neurological disease, and in particular on the central (brain) mechanisms mediating chronic pain. 
1053987	I am a scientific annotator working mainly on the dictyBase database, whose goal  is to provide the scientific community with a centralized resource containing all the information available about Dictyostelium discoideum. I analyze and annotate genes of the Dictyostelium genome, which includes: verifying and modifying gene models, descriptions and classifications of the biological roles, molecular functions, and subcellular localizations of predicted and known gene products using the Gene Ontology (GO) controlled vocabulary, adding links to literature information, classifying phenotypes, and cataloging Dictyostelium strains.  <br/>I also work on biomedical ontologies: I work on the Gene Ontology and have developed the Dictyostelium Anatomy Ontology (Gaudet et al, 2008, BMC Genomics. 18;9:130. PMID: 18366659), and I manage a project of the Gene Ontology group called the GO Reference Genome where we annotate in parallel the orthologs from multiple species (Gaudet et al 2009 PLoS Computational Biology).
1054108	non-Hodgkin lymphoma, etiology, diet, obesity, pesticides, lifestyle factors, chromosomal abnormalities, molecular epidemiology, gene-environment interactions
1054111	I am interested in ethical issues associated with conducting large-scale genetic research including consenting, data sharing, privacy, return of results, recontact and education of research participants.
1054143	Interferon signal transduction, MAPK signaling, CML, MDS, myeloproliferative disorders, cellular proliferation and apoptosis signaling, cytokine signaling  
1054153	I have had the opportunity to study problems in a number of areas of endocrinology and metabolism. Recent efforts have included studies of the evolution of the metabolic syndrome led by Dr. Xiaobin Wang.  I have been continuing work on thyroid disease including thyroid cancers. Studies of newer treatment approaches to type 1 diabetes mellitus and disorders of excessive vasopressin secretion are also being planned.
1054166	I specialize in Neonatal-Perinatal medicine with particular interest in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn. I helped establish the head-cooling program for hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy at Central DuPage Hospital.  I also have special interest in the nutritional needs of the term and preterm newborn.
1054182	Spinal cord stimulation is a fascinating modality for treatment of chronic pain which is finding new applications in medicine, yet the physiology of the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglion is not comletely elucidated in this milieu. Chronic abdominal pain and other intestinal disorders are being treated with spinal cord stimulation with increasing success. I am investigating predictive factors of success for applications of spinal cord stimulation, as well as changes in cytokines and other inflammatory markers with the use of stimulation in a variety of disease syndromes.<br/>In addition, chronic low back pain from intervertebral disc disease and degeneration remains a challenging syndrome to diagose and treat effectively. We are investigating a newer diagnostic system, or functional analgesic discography (FAD), to accurately diagnose discogenic pain and predict treatment outcomes.   
1054188	obesity/weight management, nutrition in chronic diseases, diabetes
1054303	Clinical and Research interests include Eosinophilic Esophagitis (EoE) in pediatric populations.
1054309	Hospital based treatment of children and adolescents
1054320	leukemogenesis, NUP98-HOXA9, AML, MDS, CD45-AP, CD45, PTP, signal transduction, hematopoiesis, nucleoporins
1054387	Primary interests in dysmorphology and chromosome abnormalities (specifically 22q11 deletion syndrome)
1054404	Psychiatry, genetics, schizophrenia
1054412	T cells, immunology, skin, NKT cells, signal transduction, tyrosine kinases
1054599	My laboratory research has focused on noninvasive prenatal genetic diagnosis using fetal cells and nucleic acids in maternal blood.<br/>I also have an interest in medical ethics as related to prenatal genetic screening and diagnosis and reproduction.
1054782	My interests include mental health treatment and evaluation of children and adolescents. I am also interested in the development of antisocial behaviors and substance abuse, non-suicidal self-injury, as well as racial/ethnic disparities among youth in the juvenile justice system.
1054853	My research focuses on several related areas: 
1) quality improvement for outpatient care of cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus including changing the healthcare delivery system and patient communication,
2) the way patient knowledge and attitudes influence health behaviors in chronic illnesses such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease, and
3) issues surrounding the measurement of healthcare provider performance for public accountability.
1054857	My primary research interests include medical education, curriculum design and career development with residency and faculty learners. I am also interested in education and research driven practice improvement in the care of emergency department patients with palliative and end-of-life care needs.
1054860	The laboratory research of Serdar E. Bulun, MD, focuses on studying estrogen biosynthesis and metabolism, in particular aromatase expression, in hormone-dependent human diseases such as breast cancer, endometriosis and uterine fibroids. A team of investigators works on understanding the epitheial-stromal interactions and aromotase overexpression in breast cancer tissue. Since aromatase inhibitors treat breast tumors primarily via suppressing intratumoral estrogen biosynthesis, these efforts are important for discovering new targets of treatment. Another team studies endometriosis. Basic data from this laboratory led to the introduction of aromatase inhibitors into endometriosis treatment. Human tissues and a primate model are used to elucidate cellular and molecular mechanisms responsible for the development of endometriosis. Regulation of aromatase expression is also studied in uterine fibroids, benign tumors that are dependent on estrogen for growth, by a third team. A fourth team is investigating the link between progesterone action and estrogen inactivation in normal endometrium and endometriosis. Lastly, a fifth team has identified novel mutations that cause familial excessive estrogen formation syndrome. This syndrome is characterized by short stature, gynecomastia, and hypogandism in males and early breast development and irregular menses in females. In this syndrome, heterozygous inversions in chromosome 15q21, which cause the coding region of the aromatase gene to lie adjacent to constitutively active cryptic promoters that normally transcribe other genes, result in estrogen excess owing to the overexpression of aromatase in many tissues.
1055017	Alcohol and prescription drug abuse among college students; Sexual assault
1055047	Schizophrenia is a devastating neurodevelopmental illness, which affects 1% of the population and is associated with high rates of morbidity and mortality.  We focus our research on the cellular mechanisms by which DISC1, a schizophrenia susceptibility gene, affects neurodevelopment. DISC1 was initially identified in a large Scottish family with members who suffered from schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and recurrent major depression. DISC1?s association with schizophrenia has been confirmed in other population and family studies. Genetic studies have also indicated a DISC1 association with bipolar affective disorder and with autism and Asperger syndrome. Understanding the genetic and developmental basis of schizophrenia is critical for discovering treatments.  Two recent publications by the Morris laboratory focus on the role of Disc1 in development, particularly the migration of cells to their proper location in the brain and subsequent differentiation into their intended fate.
1055048	My lab studies the processes that regulate the early development of the embryo, including cell movements, survival, proliferation, and differentiation.  We focus on a number of proteins which are linked to human birth defects, to try to understand these abnormalities.  In order to observe changes in cells and gene expression, we model human birth defects in both chicken and zebrafish embryos.  This combination of systems allows us to have rapid interrogation of developing embryos as well as large supplies of tissues for comparative studies.  We focus on the Sonic Hedgehog signaling pathway, which plays multiple roles in establishing cell fates, as well as regulating cell numbers by controlling both proliferation and survival.Current studies in my lab include exploring the gene expression changes produced by embryonic exposure to ethanol, and developing novel therapeutics that can restore normal development without causing harm to non-affected embryos.
1055051	zebrafish, glypican, Wnt, morphogenesis, developmental biology, heparan sulfate proteoglycans
1055143	Hypertension, diabetes, migraine, women's health, medical education
1055145	My research focuses on the basal ganglia, a group of subcortical brain nuclei that are critical for voluntary movement and associative learning and are the primary sites of dysfunction in Parkinson?s disease, Huntington?s disease, obsessive-compulsive disorder and addiction. My objectives are to define the fundamental principles underlying the normal and pathological operation of the basal ganglia.  My hope is that this information will provide the foundation for the rational development of restorative or neuroprotective therapies.
1055146	My primary clinical interests are in the care of the frail elderly. I am particularly interested in memory disorders, dementia, gait disorders and falls, failure to thrive, Parkinson's Disease, and medication management in the older adult.
1055267	Dr. Rosenow is the Director of Functional Neurosurgery in the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine Department of Neurosurgery and at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. He specializes in the treatment of movement disorders such as Parkinson?s disease, tremor, and dystonia, as well as the surgical treatment of epilepsy and chronic pain. He works as part of a coordinated multidisciplinary team that includes physicians in neurology, neurophysiology, neuropsychology, neuroradiology, physical therapy, speech pathology, and social work.<br/>My research revolves around restorative neurosurgery. This includes neurostimulation (deep brain, cortical, transcranial magnetic), brain-machine interface (both cortical chip and EEG-based), and gene therapy methods. Our group currently has active projects investigating cortical-basal ganglia interactions in Parkinson's disease patients with externalized deep brain stimulating electrodes as well as computer modeling of both cortical-basal ganglia interactions and novel paradigms of deep brain stimulation.  We are also involved in a project using an animal model of neuropathic facial pain to discern and refine motor cortical stimulation for facial pain. We have an active protocol for transcranial magetic stimulation for recovery for brain injury. Another area of interest is image-guided surgery. We pioneered frameless deep brain stimulation surgery and have several projects investigating new methods of intraoperative localization and navigation.
1055282	Family health and mental health, impact of chronic illness on the family, biological and psychological measures of stress, health disparities
1055316	As the tracheostomy specialist for the medical center, tracheostomy management is a key research interest.  Other research interests include exercise programs to prevent venous thrombosis and other sequelae related to critical illness, and a new method of training for critical care nurses.
1055329	Risk factors and outcomes of traumatic illness, racial disparities in trauma, intimate partner violence
1055338	Brain Tumors, Spinal Cord Tumors, Neurologic Complications of Cancer
1055434	Study of the mechanisms underlying atrial fibrillation. We are currently investigating the autonomic profile of the the pulmonary veins and the rest of the left atrium in a canine model, especially as it relates to the genesis of atrial fibrillation. Our laboratory is also investigating the mechanisms underlying atrial fibrosis (and resulting substrate for atrial fibrillation). 
1055441	Osteoporosis, Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Inflammatory myositis, Clinical Outcomes
1055487	My primary research interest is the interface between cognition and emotion. This includes the relationship between mental illness and memory, attention, and other cognitive processes. I am also interested in applied statistics and the application of psychometric theories to the development of better measurement tools for use in health research.
1055535	nutrients, diet, trace elements, lifestyle factors, cardiovascular diseases, stroke, obesity, metabolic syndrome, nutrition, epidemiology.
1055581	Synapses, plasticity, learning
1055592	My broad research interest lies in understanding the molecular basis of human genetic diseases and developing therapeutics for their treatment. Specifically, my research primarily focuses on neuromuscular diseases, which are those that affect muscle, the nerves that innervate muscle or the neuromuscular junction, which is the connection between the two. One way to approach this problem is to study mutations that disrupt normal neural development. Proximal spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a prime example. After cystic fibrosis, SMA is the most common autosomal recessive childhood disease. The disease affects 1/10,000 live born children. It is characterized by degeneration of the a-motor neurons in the spinal cord, which causes proximal, symmetrical limb and trunk muscle weakness that progresses to paralysis and ultimately death. Currently, there is no available treatment for SMA patients. <br/>Mutations in survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) gene are responsible for SMA. In humans, two virtually identical copies of SMN are present, SMN1 and SMN2. SMN1 produces only full-length transcripts (FL-SMN) and is therefore the SMA-determining gene, whereas the predominant transcript from SMN2 is an exon 7 alternatively spliced form. The SMN2 gene also produces a low level of FL-SMN transcript, which explains why SMA is not embryonic lethal in humans. Nevertheless, lower motor neurons eventually succumb to the reduced SMN dosage and degenerate. Why motor neurons are specifically affected is not clear but it has been proposed that this may be due to a distinct role for SMN in this cell type. <br/>We have developed a translational research program for SMA. The research is multi-faceted and uses biochemistry, cell biology, molecular biology, and animal modeling. We use these approaches to decipher SMN function within nerve and muscle, the two tissues affected in SMA. We have also generated a hypomorphic allelic series of Smn mutations in mice that mimic human SMN2 splicing.
1055613	Kinesin motors drive intracellular transport of many different cargoes along microtubules, and they are critical to trafficking in the nervous system as well as cell division.  Antimitotic drugs that act on two kinesin motors, Eg5 and CENP-E, are currently in phase I and II clinical trials.  Several kinesin motors, including Eg5 and CENP-E, are intrinsically regulated in the cell by their C-terminal tail domains. Our laboratory's work is inspired by the fact that there appear to be multiple, highly effective mechanisms that nature has developed for regulating kinesin kinesin motors. Our hope is that once we understand these natural regulation mechanisms, they can be mimicked to develop new and better antimitotic drugs, resulting ultimately in a larger number of treatment options.
1055794	Antimicrobial Resistance, Antimicrobial Utilization, Nosocomial Infections, Geriatric Infections, MRSA
1055794	Clinical responsibilities include inpatient general infectious diseases consultation and outpatient HIV and general infectious diseases care.  <br/>Research projects include:  MRSA colonization in HIV-infected individuals; Antimicrobial utilization in hospitalized elderly population; Evaluation of surveillance methods to identify surgical site infections following total hip arthroplasty.
1055878	My research interests lie in the epidemiology of heart failure and sudden cardiac death in patients with heart failure. My research is funded by grants from the National Institutes of Health and the American Heart Association.
1055878	My research is aimed at understanding heart failure, atrial fibrillation and sudden cardiac death in women. In addition, I am interested in pharmacogenomics in relation to heart failure medications. My research is funded through grants from the National Institutes of Health and the American Heart Association.
1055931	Breast cancer, oncogenes, tumor suppressors, p16, pRB, p53
1055971	My research has focused on the application of pharmacokinetics and drug metabolism to problems in clinical pharmacology.  When at NIH I also established an interest in the development and proper use of biomarkers in drug development.
1056003	Obesity in children<br/>Health Care in Underserved Populations
1056004	My basic research interest is on the delineation of the mechanism of cell fate determination in blood and marrow stem cells and the development of novel cell-based therapy based on this knowledge. We recently discovered that blood stem cells maintain a balance between self-renewal and maturation through asymmetric cell division and we are develop methods to manipulate this process and expand blood stem cells. <br/>My clinical research interest is on the application of an effective but less toxic method of stem cell transplant to treat children with severe inborn immunological defects. Using this method, we have achieved a cure rate of 100% in these patients, if they are diagnosed and treated early.
1056039	Our laboratory is interested in a range of issues related to the development, physiology and pathology of the 'neurovascular unit' (NVU) (neurons, vessels, pericytes, astrocytes). We also devise new approaches to study at high spatio-temporal resolution, cellular interactions within the NVU, using optical imaging techniques such as two photon microscopy, genetic tools and experimental disease models
1056043	In my lab we are interested in delineating the molecular mechanisms of progesterone action through its receptor, PR in the uterus.  This is done in the context of normal endometrial differentiation, specifically, decidualization, as well as in uterine pathologies, such as endometriosis, endometrial cancer and uterine fibroids.  Specifically, we are interested in studying PR function in relation to other signaling pathways and transcription factors.  
1056074	Dr Carla Pugh is currently Associate Professor of Surgery and Director of the Center for Advanced Surgical Education at Northwestern University. She also holds an appointment in the School of Education at Northwestern.  Dr. Pugh has a broad interest in the use of technology for medical and surgical education.<br/>http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=18939055
1056109	My area of expertise is Pediatric Cardiology with a focus on non-invasive imaging (transthoracic, transesophageal, and fetal echocardiography) and connective tissue disorders.  I am the principal investigator at Children's Memorial Hospital for the Marfan Trial, which is a multi-center study sponsored by the Pediatric Heart Network and NIH/NHLBI assessing the long-term effects of atenolol versus losartan in patients with Marfan syndrome.
1056118	My primary interests are in the minimally-invasive repair of abdominal and thoracic aortic aneurysms as well as the minimally-invasive reconstruction of lower extremity arterial occlusive disease. I am also an investigator for the ATTRACT trial looking at early thrombolytic therapy of DVT to precvent the development of post-thrombotic syndrome. In addition, I have considerable experience in the use of electronic health records in clinical practice.
1056153	John A. Martin, MD, is Associate Professor of Medicine and Surgery, Director of Endoscopy, and Medical Director of the Gastroenterology Laboratory and Endoscopy Unit in the Division of Gastroenterology at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine and Northwestern Memorial Hospital. His clinical, research, and medical education efforts and interests are focused in endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), advanced interventional endoscopy, surgical endoscopy, hepato-biliary disorders, pancreatico-biliary diseases, transplantation surgery, natural-orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES), and the development of novel endoscopic devices for advanced therapeutic endoscopy, as well as interdisciplinary investigation of new advanced multimodal molecular imaging technologies in the laboratories of Drs. Khashayarsha Khazaie and Elias Gounaris. He is also involved in interdisciplinary study, application, and validation of new simulation models and devices for use in endoscopic training and education. With Drs. Nathaniel Soper and Eric Hungness in the Department of Surgery, he is co-founder of the Northwestern NOTES Investigation Group commenced in 2006. In 2007, he initiated the third-tier, fourth year fellowship program in Advanced Therapeutic Endoscopy at Northwestern.<br/>Dr. Martin is a graduate of the University of Virginia College of Arts and Sciences and of the University of Virginia School of Medicine. He served his internship and residency at the University Hospitals of Cleveland, Case Western Reserve University. He received his fellowship training in Gastroenterology and Hepatology at the University of Pittsburgh, where he concentrated in pancreatico-biliary disorders, hepatobiliary disorders, and therapeutic endoscopy. He then undertook third-tier fellowship training in advanced interventional endoscopy under the direction of Dr. Gregory Haber and Dr. Norman Marcon at The Wellesley Hospital, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Dr. Martin was appointed to the faculty at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine in July, 1997. He joined the faculty of the Division of Gastroenterology at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine in 2003.
1056183	Transplant rejection and tolerance
1056185	Our primary research interests are in epigenetics, or how changes in gene expression can impact neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism, epilepsy, Rett and Angelman syndromes; and in how general or specific environmental factors such as fetal alcohol exposure can work through epigenetics to impact outcome.
1056241	My research interests revolve around understanding the risk factors and improving outcomes of critically ill patients with serious infections. This includes severe community-acquired pneumonia, sepsis of all causes, and nosocomial infections, particularly ventilator-associated pneumonia.
1056270	Dr. Lloyd-Jones? research interests lie in cardiovascular disease epidemiology, risk estimation, and prevention. A main focus of his research has been investigation of the lifetime risks for various cardiovascular diseases, and factors which modify those risks. Other areas of interest include CVD risk estimation using novel biomarkers, imaging of subclinical atherosclerosis, and the epidemiology of hypertension. His clinical and teaching interests lie in general cardiology, with a focus on prevention.
1056292	The use of simulation technology to improve team training and resident education in neonatal resuscitation.  <br/>Other interests include neonatal brain injury and neuroprotection.<br/>Neonatal Infectious Diseases.
1056312	Dr. Soper's research interests have revolved around the applications of minimally invasive surgery for gastrointestinal disease, laparoscopic ultrasound, alternative treatments for gallstones and motility of the gastrointestinal tract. More recently he has been involved in the early clinical experience with Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES).
1056406	Dr. Wang is a board certified pediatrician and a molecular epidemiologist whose work unites molecular biology, population genetics, clinical medicine, and epidemiology and brings together investigators and health professionals from multiple disciplines. Her research has covered a broad scope of health issues ranging from adverse reproductive outcomes, child growth and development, allergy and respiratory health, and childhood precursors of adult diseases, including obesity and metabolic syndrome. Dr. Wang has authored and co-authored over 100 publications in peer-reviewed scientific journals, and many of them appear in prestigious journals, including New England Journal of Medicine, Journal of American Medical Association, and Lancet. At present, Dr. Wang is the principal investigator of multiple large-scale molecular epidemiological studies funded by the National Institute of Health, with a particular focus on environmental factors, genetic variants, epigenomic alterations, and their interactions in adverse reproductive outcomes, food allergy and related conditions, and obesity and metabolic syndrome.<br/>Dr. Wang received her MD from Beijing Medical University in Beijing, China, and a master of public health from the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine at Tulane University in New Orleans. She also received a doctor of science degree from the Department of Maternal and Child Health at the Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health in Baltimore. Dr. Wang completed a three-year research fellowship in Environmental Epidemiology at the Harvard University School of Public Health and a residency in pediatrics at Boston Medical Center.
1056446	Preschool children with behavioral and emotional problems, anxiety disorders, parent training, developmental assessments for educational and treatment planning
1056465	Primary interests center around investigations into immunologic correlates of fatigue in individuals with multiple sclerosis and chronic fatigue states. Also interested in immunologic correlates of disease in individuals with MS.
1056593	The major focus of our laboratory is to elucidate the mechanism of signal transduction by which nuclear receptor and associated coactivators regulate gene expression in tissue/cell specific manner. To understand the biological role of nuclear receptors and coactivators, our lab is using genetically modified (transgenic and gene knock-out) mouse models of novel coactivators which are identified and characterized in our lab and study their biological significance in mammalian development and various diseases like obesity, diabetes and cancer.
1056682	muscle, contractility, cardiac function, troponin, calponin, transgenesis, gene targeting, protein structure-function relationship
1056693	Dr. Scandrett works primarily at a subacute and long-term care nursing facility near Northwestern Memorial Hospital.  Her clinical and research interests include care quality and improvement, and helping individuals maintain their quality of life in long-term care.  
1056693	My primary research and clinical interest is improving the healthcare-related quality of life for elderly patients residing in nursing facilities toward the end of life. My research examines the factors associated with high quality nursing home care, with the goal to improve the skills of the interdisciplinary team working in the long-term care setting.
1056697	Dr. Schleimer has a longstanding interest in the mechanisms of action of glucocorticoids in allergic diseases.  Past studies have ranged from translational investigations in human subjects to molecular biological assessment of glucocorticoid action.  Mechanisms of the pathogenesis of allergic diseases including asthma, rhinosinusitis, dermatitis and others have also been an area of investigation.  Recent studies have focused on the role of airway epithelial cells as integrators of responses in the airways, including inflammation, innate immunity and adaptive immunity.
1056697	I am interested in the mechanisms of pathogenesis and treatment of a variety of allergic and inflammatory diseases associated with allergy.   These include chronic rhinosinusitis, asthma, hay fever, rhinitis, food allergy and others.   We also study the mechanisms of action of antiinflammatory glucocorticoids.   Our studies focus on the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying disease and steroid action as well as developing strategies to for new treatments.
1056714	Multiphoton Microscopy of living cells and tissues.  See NINDS P-30 grant.
1056726	I am developing non-invasive transcranial brain stimulation as an adjuvant to lower and upper limb movement therapy following stroke. Adjuvants include transcranial magnetic stimulation, transcranial direct current stimulation, and spike-timing dependent plasticity which uses transcranial magnetic stimulation paired with electrical stimulation of a peripheral nerve.
1056845	My lab is interested in how cell-cell adhesion and differentiation are controlled and coordinated by the multifunctional protein, beta catenin. In particular, we are interested in how the signaling form of beta catenin becomes activated, and how phosphorylation modulates beta catenin's various functions.  Molecular insights into the fine regulation of beta catenin signaling and adhesion will be relevant to pulmonary fibrosis and cancers.
1056845	My research centers on understanding mechanisms of cell-cell adhesion, and how adhesive information is conveyed to the cell's interior.  We focus on the cytoplasmic protein, b-catenin, which plays essential roles in both intercellular adhesion and nuclear signaling.  At the cell surface, b-catenin binds the cytoplasmic domain of cadherin-type adhesion receptors, which allows cells to engage their neighbors through robust intercellular adhering junctions.   In the cytoplasm and nucleus, a cadherin-independent pool of b-catenin transduces extracellular Wnt signals by interacting with TCF-type transcription factors to activate target genes. The Wnt/b-catenin signaling cascade activates genes that allow cells to adopt particular identities throughout development.  In adult tissues, activation of this pathway maintains the 'progenitor' phenotype, while inhibition of this pathway promotes differentiation.  In the lung alveolus, type 2 epithelial cells are thought to give rise to type 1 cells, but the signaling mechanisms which drive this process remain poorly defined.  We reason that modulation of Wnt/b-catenin signaling controls type 2 differentiation into type 1 cells, and experiments are currently underway to address this hypothesis.  Defining the signaling pathways that control AT2 maintenance and differentiation may aid our understanding of the pathophysiology of pulmonary fibrosis and COPD.
1056853	Richard C. Meagher, Ph.D. is Associate Research Professor in the Division of Hematology/Onocology and Director of the Cell Therapy Processing Facility at the Feinberg School of Medicine.  Dr. Meagher's primary research interests include the role of the hematopoietic microenvironment (stroma) on the regulation of proliferation and differentiation of stem cell progenitors and precursors, especially the role it plays in directing the immune arm of the hematopoeitic system.  In addition, Dr. Meagher has studied the mechanisms of action of hematopoietic growth factors and cytokines and the control they exert on stem cell precursors.  These interests have led him to develop novel translational methods and procedures for the collection and long-term cryopreservation of human stem cell sources including bone marrow, peripheral blood progenitors and umbilical cord blood cells.  He is currently investigating novel replacement agents for dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) that is considered the gold standard for cryopreservation of human blood products intended for clinical transplantation.  
1056890	Valve Repair/Replacement, Mitral Valve Repair, Atrial Fibrillation Surgery, Maze Procedure, Aortic Aneurysm, Coronary Bypass Surgery, Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy / Myectomy, Minimally Invasive Surgery 
1057063	The innovation of pediatric specialty clinicians has extended the lives of children with complex medical needs, neurological impairment, and technology dependence.  However, our systems of care have difficulty meeting the complex needs of this emerging population.  Challenges lie in coordination of care through a vast continuum that includes hospital systems, primary care, home health, etc.  My interests lie in defining this population of patients; studying their needs on a clinical and systems level, and advocating for quality improvement.  A new area of focus is the potential for electronic health information exchange, now a national priority, to facilitate the coordination of care for these patients.
1057152	Clinical interests included Mood and Anxiety disorders in adults and older adults, as well as the evaluation and treatment of the behavioral and psychological symptoms of Dementia.
1057352	I am interested in clinical research centered on cardiac imaging and valve disease.
1057436	Clinical outcomes for thyroid cancer, hyperparathyroidism, and adrenal tumors including pheochromocytoma and adrenal cancers.<br/>Decision analysis.<br/>Cost-effectiveness analysis.<br/>Database analysis.
1057622	Dr Naidech's primary research and clinical interests include life threatening neurologic diseases such as intracerebral (brain) hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, status epilepticus (continual seizures) and traumatic brain injury. Dr. Naidech manages several prospective outcomes databases; these data may be linked with the Enterprise Data Warehouse for quality and academic purposes. Administratively, he is a Medical Director of the Neuro/Spine ICU at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. Dr. Naidech is a frequent peer-reviewer for academic journals.
1057695	Outcomes of novel techniques in breast cancer reconstruction, aesthetic surgery, general reconstruction.<br/>Medical device innovation and biodesign.
1057699	My research has a focus on benign diseases of the prostate in humans. My laboratory is very interested in understanding the mechanism underlying inflammation of the human prostate and it's impact on prostate diseases. We study chemokine mechanisms in chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS); the role of TLR signaling in prostate epithelial inflammation and; host-pathogen interactions in bacterial prostatitis. The laboratory utilizes comparative animal models that closely track human prostate disease to examine prostate disease mechanisms and also as tools for translational research.
1057718	I am interested in Pediatric pulmonology, specifially looking at cystic fibrosis and interstitial lung disease. I am also interested in lung function testing from birth to adulthood. I also have an interest in Healthcare Quality and outcomes research.
1057749	I am a general internist with advanced training in epidemiology, public health, and health communication. After completing my residency in Primary Care/Internal Medicine at New York University/Bellevue Hospital, I was a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Clinical Scholar at the University of Chicago.  My expertise is in cross-cultural communication and health promotion for minority communities. I am a recipient of a Mentored Patient-Oriented Research Career Development Award (5K23HL084177-04) from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute to develop and evaluate culturaly targeted heart disease prevenetion messages for South Asians. I currently direct an ongoing research program to develop, implement, and evaluate literacy and culturally appropriate health education materials on heart disease and diabetes.
1057754	health-related quality of life, symptom evaluation, functional status, primary care
1057770	Over one million hospitalizations for acute heart failure syndromes (AHFS) occur every year.  Despite tremendous advances in cardiovascular management, post-discharge mortality and morbidity remain very high, approached 45% within 90 days.  Yet the initial management of AHFS has not substantially changed in the last 40 years.  We are actively working to improve post-discharge outcomes for all AHFS patients.
1057792	Dr. Rahul Khare has recently received a K08 grant 'Improving Emergency Department (ED) Quality and Safety by Enhancing Operations and Quality Management' from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.  For this five-year project Dr. Khare will focus on one key quality indicator score in the ED:  ?time-to-percutaneous intervention (PCI)? quality indicator score for acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients. Patients with STEMI have increased mortality if reperfusion or PCI is not achieved within 90 minutes.   Although there is an extensive literature about implementation of this process, the time-to-PCI quality indicator is achieved only 70% of the time.  Dr. Khare will develop and implement process improvements to address the most serious time-to PCI process concerns and  develop a toolkit, based on the findings that will assist hospitals and EDs in assessing opportunities for operational improvement and offer an approach for assessing and resolving quality management issues for time-to-PCI.
1057805	Ruchi Gupta, M.D., M.P.H, is Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and a health services researcher at Northwestern University and Children?s Memorial Hospital.  Dr. Gupta has significant interest and experience with community-based research.  Her research and clinical interests include childhood food allergy and childhood asthma.  Dr. Gupta has more than 25 first-authored peer-reviewed publications and grant support through the Food Allergy Initiative, the National Children's Study and the Robert Wood Johnson Physician Faculty Scholars award.
1057813	We study the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which memories of stressful events contribute to anxiety- and depression-like behavior.  Specifically, our interest lies in neuronal receptors, signal transduction pathways and gene responses mediating: (i)  formation and extinction of aversive memory; (ii)  delayed enhancement of fear memory in the aftermath of stressful experiences; (iii) social modeling of fear; and (iv) the relationship between aversive memories and depression.  Our long-term goal is to elucidate the key brain mechanisms linking cognitive and emotional processes and identify novel targets for treatment of anxiety and depression.
1057824	Dedicated to the care of hospitalized patients.  Additionally works as the Assistant Medical Director of Clinical Information Services for Northwestern Memorial Hospital.
1057832	TRANSPLANT IMMUNOLOGY, ANTIGEN PROCESSING AND PRESENTATION, HUMORAL IMMUNOTY, HLA ANTIBODEIS, NON-HLA ANTIBODIES
1057873	Primary interests: Education of medical students and residents, Otitis Media
1057874	Denys T. Lau, Ph.D., joins the Buehler Center on Aging, Health & Society as Assistant Professor and Director of Health Services Evaluation and Policy Research Section. As a health services and outcomes researcher, Dr. Lau applies various types of quantitative and qualitative research methods to study the quality and safety of health services provided to older populations.
1057874	quality and safety of medication use among older adults
1057890	-Strain imaging in coronary heart disease<br/>-Stress echo in valvular heart disease<br/>-Patient Prosthesis mismatch.<br/>-Advanced heart failure supportive therapies
1057897	<BR><BR><br/>Our laboratory is investigating the response of keratinocytes to ultraviolet (UV) irradiation. We are investigating the role of JNK, p38 and ERK signal transduction pathways in response of cells to UV light and have recently demonstrated that JNK enzyme co-associates with p53 protein and p21Waf cyclin inhibitor. Other studies in the laboratory focus on development of novel chemopreventive agents against UV-induced skin cancer. Apigenin is a plant flavonoid which has been shown to inhibit UV- and chemically-induced mouse skin tumorigenesis and we believe it shows promise for development as a protective agent against human skin cancer. We have demonstrated that apigenin induces G1 and G2/M cell cycle arrest in keratinocytes and other cell lines by inhibiting both accumulation of cyclins and the cyclin dependent kinase activities of cdc2p34 and cdk2. We have also demonstrated that apigenin induces expression of the cell cycle inhibitor WAFp21 in a p53-dependent manner, and that the half-life of p53 protein is extended, due to stabilization via site-specific phosphorylation. Experiments are underway to characterize the kinase(s) involved in p53 phosphorylation. Our laboratory is also investigating the mechanisms by which apigenin inhibits UV-induction of the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) pathway, an enzyme important for prostaglandin production and cell transformation. Experiments are underway to characterize transcription factors which are involved in UV-induction of COX-2 and which may be modulated by apigenin treatment.
1057915	Pediatric Urgent Care
1057921	pediatric emergency medicine ultrasound to reduce radiation exposure, improve patient safety, expedite care, and decrease waiting time
1057996	Dr. Chin is a pediatric surgeon with interests in minimally invasive surgery, critical care, neonatal surgery, congenital anomalies, tumors of the chest and abdomen, endocrine surgery, hernias, undescended tests and ovarian disease.
1058027	Clinical interests: 1- Outcomes after Solid organ transplantation in Hispanics 2- Health communication and literacy in Solid Organ transplantation 3- Quality of Life in Solid Organ transplantation
1058111	Our research focuses on fibrosis and tissue repair. Fibrosis and aberrant tissue repair are prominent in autoimmune diseases (scleroderma, myositis, lupus) and in organ-based disorders (pulmonary fibrosis, glomerulosclerosis, hypertrophic scar), and are considered intractable. Aberrant tissue regeneration also underlie aging and obesity. Fibrosis contributes to 30% of all death worldwide, and thus represents a compelling and urgent scientific challegen.<br/>We believe that fibrosis is in fact potentially reversible. Our research takes a 'systems-biology' multi-disciplinary approach to fibrosis, utilizing human tissue, DNA, serum, and animal models and cell biology studies to identify and validate novel targets for therapy, discover genetic risk factors and useful biomarkers. we then attempt to translate these discoveries into clinically relevant approaches.
1058111	Our research focuses on the pathogenesis and treatment of fibrosis. We focus on the  interplay between vascular and autoimmune/inflammatory events in pathological fibrosis.  Our clinical research is focused on the development and evaluation of novel treatments for scleroderma, in using functional genomics to identifying novel biomarkers, and in identifying the genetic bases for fibrosis and systemic sclerosis.
1058170	Areas of interest include heart failure, heart transplantation, ventricular assist devices, disease management programs, quality of life, psychosocial outcomes, patient adherence with therapeutic regimens, patient decision-making, caregiver burden, health literacy, nutrition, and transition from pediatric to adult care.
1058191	Dr. Jordan?s work spans several areas, including quality and cost of care for persons with chronic illnesses, financing and outcomes of mental health and child welfare services, and health economics.
1058264	I enjoy caring for children with disorders of growth, puberty and the adrenal, pituitary and thyroid gland.  I also enjoy care of children with diabetes
1058270	My primary interests involve parental education on health maintenance for their children, preventative medicine, and child safety/injury prevention.  Also, childhood obesity & proper nutrition has become an increasing problem in our community, and thus become an increased interest of mine for treatment & prevention.  I also enjoy the continued educational opportunities for both medical student & residents, as well as more informal daily education for the parents of our patients.
1058311	My research focuses on understanding how the human brain transforms odor inputs into olfactory percepts (such as the smell of mint, banana, or wet dog), and how learning, memory, and experience modulate odor perception at the neural and behavioral levels. To address these questions we use a combination of techniques including high-resolution olfactory functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), multivariate statistical analyses, psychophysical paradigms, and physiological recordings.  Given that patients with Alzheimer?s disease (AD) exhibit profound impairments in the sense of smell, I am also investigating whether olfactory fMRI techniques can be effectively used as a non-invasive diagnostic biomarker to identify asymptomatic individuals at risk for developing AD.
1058513	Our lab is interested in the effects of oxygen on cell metabolism, and in the molecular mechanisms underlying cellular oxygen sensing.  The signaling pathways activated by hypoxia, and their regulation of transcriptional and post-translational responses in diverse cell types are also of major interest.
1058524	neuroscience
1058559	Functional gastrointestinal disorders including abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and constipation in children. Gastrointestinal motility.
1058585	Coinvestigator. A study looking at strain, strain rate, and changes in left ventricular volumes and geometry with 3D echocardiography in patients with chronic valvular regurgitation and in patients with valvular regurgitation before and after surgery.<br/>Coinvestigator. A study looking at strain, strain rate, and myocardial viability with dobutamine stress echo in patients with congestive heart failure before and after placement of biventricular pacemaker for resynchronization therapy.<br/>MADIT-CRT, coinvestigator. Will be overseeing and directing the acquisition of echocardiogram studies for all recruited patients in our center.
1058594	As a certified sex therapist, I treat a wide range of sexual disorders, including problems with desire, arousal and orgasm, as well as pain disorders, sexual compulsivity and paraphilias. As a clinical psychologist I also treat individuals and couples with relationship problems, depression and anxiety.
1058614	My research interest focuses on the role of acetyltransferase p300 in collagen synthesis and tissue fibrosis. Excessive synthesis and deposition of extracellular matrix proteins especially Type I collagen in the tissues causes fibrosis. TGF-beta stimulates collagen synthesis and has been implicated in fibrosis. We recently demonstrated that i) acetyltransferase p300 is essential for TGF-beta-induced collagen synthesis, ii) TGF-beta induces the levels of p300 in fibroblasts, and iv) most importantly, p300 level is significantly elevated in fibrotic tissues. We are interested i) to determine the molecular basis of elevation of p300 in fibrotic tissues, ii) to determine the contribution of elevated level of p300 in the development of fibrosis, and iii) to develop novel therapeutic approaches to control tissue fibrosis  
1058614	My research interest focuses on the role of acetyltransferase p300 in collagen synthesis and tissue fibrosis. Excessive synthesis and deposition of extracellular matrix proteins especially Type I collagen in the tissues causes fibrosis. TGF-beta stimulates collagen synthesis and has been implicated in fibrosis. We recently demonstrated that i) acetyltransferase p300 is essential for TGF-beta-induced collagen synthesis, ii) TGF-beta induces the levels of p300 in fibroblasts, and iv) most importantly, p300 level is significantly elevated in fibrotic tissues. We are interested i) to determine the molecular basis of elevation of p300 in fibrotic tissues, ii) to determine the contribution of elevated level of p300 in the development of fibrosis, and iii) to develop novel therapeutic approaches to control tissue fibrosis. We are also interested to delineate the role Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) in tissue fibrosis. PAI-1 inhibits uPA/tPA and plasmin-mediated activation of MMP activities. PAI-1 level is elevated in different fibrotic tissues and implicated in fibrosis. Paradoxically, PAI-1 deficiency is associated with cardiac fibrosis in aged mice. We are investigating the molecular basis of cardiac fibrosis in PAI-1 deficient mice.
1058670	Mitochondrial transport, preconditioning, ion transport
1058681	Neuropathology <BR><BR><br/>Molecular genetics of brain tumor (by FISH)
1058758	Our research focuses on pathologic mechanisms of asthma. We use in vivo mouse models involving allergen sensitization of wildtype, transgenic and gene knockout mice. We also focus on mucosal immunity, specifically the role of secretory IgA, 12/15-lipoxygenase and intelectin in asthma. We augment these in vivo studies by studying the responses of cultured normal human primary airway epithelial cells to the effects of allergic mediators. Experimental measurements include in vivo airway physiology (the development of airway hyperresponsiveness to bronchoconstrictors), lung inflammation, airway goblet cell hyperplasia (excessive mucus production), sub-epithelial fibrosis (excessive collagen), and airway smooth muscle increases in mass or contractility. We use quantitative RT-PCR (Taqman) to measure expression of genes. We use computer-assisted stereology to quantify pathologic changes observed in sections of mouse lungs. We use ELISA to measure protein levels of specific mediators in mouse lung lavage samples and serum.
1058758	Our research focuses on pathologic mechanisms of asthma. We use in vivo mouse models involving allergen sensitization of wildtype, transgenic and gene knockout mice. We also use classical genetic studies to identify asthma susceptibility genes in mice and we focus on mucosal immunity, specifically the role of secretory IgA in asthma. We augment these in vivo studies by studying the responses of cultured normal human primary airway epithelial cells to the effects of allergic mediators. Experimental measurements include in vivo airway physiology (the development of airway hyperresponsiveness to bronchoconstrictors), lung inflammation, airway goblet cell hyperplasia (excessive mucus production), sub-epithelial fibrosis (excessive collagen), and airway smooth muscle increases in mass or contractility. We use quantitative RT-PCR (Taqman) to measure expression of genes. We use computer-assisted stereology to quantify pathologic changes observed in sections of mouse lungs. We use ELISA to measure protein levels of specific mediators in mouse lung lavage samples and serum. We perform gene expression studies in cultured normal human primary airway epithelial cells.
1058781	My primary research interest is centered on tumor cell and extracellular matrix (ECM) interactions associated with cancer progression. These studies involve analyzing how tumor cells affect/alter their ECM, as well as respond to their changing environment using in vitro model systems based on an underlying concept of dynamic reciprocity. 
1058800	metabolic syndrome, cholesterol, lipids, menopause, CVD
1058949	Major Research Interests:<br/>Global Mental Health,<br/>Psychology of Justice,<br/>Transmission of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder,<br/>Psychology of Diversity,<br/>Cultural Issues in Clinical Psychology,<br/>Predictors of Psychotherapy Outcome,
1058962	Research in our laboratory is focused on the molecular and cellular mechanisms of intracellular calcium (Ca2+) signaling. Ca2+ is a ubiquitous intracellular signaling messenger, mediating many essential functions including gene expression, chemotaxis, and neurotransmitter release. Cellular Ca2+ signals generally arise from the opening of Ca2+ permeable ion channels, a diverse family of membrane proteins. We are studying Ca2+ signals arising from the opening of Store-Operated channels (SOCs), a family of plasma membrane Ca2+ channels activated by a decrease in the calcium content of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Human patients with mutations in SOCs suffer from a devastating immunodeficiency, underscoring their vital importance for human immunity. We are studying the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which SOCs are activated and the mechanisms by which they regulate gene expression, immune cell function, and the development of neural stem cells.
1058964	cytoskeleton, motor proteins, cell movement, microtubules, actin, kinesin, dynein, myosin, neurodegenerative diseases
1058994	Dr. Laumann's clinical interests include the diagnosis and treatment of complex  medical dermatologic disorders including collagen vascular, psychocutaneous, and genital diseases. She has a particular interest in fibrosing, pruritic and other disorders related to renal dysfunction, as well as Raynaud's syndrome. She has an ongoing interest in the various aspects of the application of body art and how this may be used to help functioning. Currently, she is involved with other research studies related to psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, and lupus erythematosus.
1059008	Immunosuppression Withdrawal for Pediatric Living-donor Liver Transplant Recipients.<br/>Currently a Co Investigator in a study sponsored by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health. The primary objective of this study is to determine the proportion of participants successfully withdrawn from immunosuppression and to measure the outcome of immunosuppression withdrawal.
1059041	Comparative medicine and pathogenesis, preclinical testing and toxicology, nanotoxicology
1059090	Epithelial cells, which are positioned at the line of first exposure to many pathogens, regulate both innate and adaptive immunity through production of functional molecules and via physical interactions with cells of the immune system. We are currently investigated on the epithelial factors which activate and/or regulate immune cells. We are also focusing on the pathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis.
1059090	Local immunity in the airway; airway epithelial cell biology; mast cell biology; the pathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis.    <br/>A long-recognized property of airway epithelial cells is their function as a complex physical barrier that defends against exposure to potentially harmful inhaled substances and microbial pathogens. It is now clear that airway epithelial cells also regulate both innate and adaptive immunity through production of functional molecules and via physical interactions with immune cells. Our laboratory is focused on the role of epithelial cytokines including BAFF, TSLP and IL-1 family cytokines in the initiation and activation of airway inflammation.                 <br/>Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the sinuses and upper airways that affects over 30 million Americans. Current medications have variable efficacy and over 250,000 surgical procedures are performed annually in the United States on patients who failed maximal medical therapy. Our laboratory investigates the pathogenesis of CRS. We are currently focused on the role of epithelial cells and inflammatory cells including B cells, T cells, macrophages, eosinophils and mast cells in patients with CRS.
1059133	My research interest is primarily on the structural mechanisms of activation of the cell-surface receptors in cancer and neural development. We try to obtain atomic-resolution views, using X-ray crystallography and biochemical/biophysical tools, on how the transmembrane receptors recognize their ligands, and how these recognition/activation processes can be modulated for clinical purposes.
1059140	My research interest lies in identification and characterization of cell surface carbohydrates and proteins required for herpes simplex virus (HSV) viral entry and cell fusion. I have been focusing on glycoprotein B (gB) and gL, two of four glycoproteins essential for HSV entry and cell fusion. I have been studying the interaction between gB and gB entry receptor, paired immunoglobulin like-type 2 receptor (PILRa). I am also interested in the interactions among gB, gD, gH and gL.
1059149	Gastroesophgeal reflux disease;<br/>Esophageal motility;<br/>Mathematical modeling;
1059178	1. Genomics for Kidney Transplantation - a collaboration to find genetic predispositions to various clinical outcomes in transplantation.
2. Non-invasive diagnosis of renal allograft rejection - Urine based assays for mRNA to diagnose rejection and predict outcomes.
3. A randomized controlled trial of Rituximab vs. Placebo for treatment of de novo donor specific antibodies detected post renal transplant.
1059178	Living Kidney Donation, Highly Sensitized and incompatible patients, Kidney Paired Donation, Transplant Genomics and Biomarker Development, acute renal failure, humoral allograft rejection
1059251	My primary clinical interests are in the cognitive-behavioral treatment of anxiety and mood disorders.  I am a certified affiliate with the Academy of Cognitive Therapy (ACT).
1059267	Gregory B. Waypa, Ph.D. received his B.S. in Biomedical Engineering Sciences from the University of California, San Diego in 1991.   He then enrolled as a graduate student at Albany Medical College in Albany, New York, where, under Fred L. Minnear, Ph.D., he studied increased pulmonary vascular permeability associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and explored the possibility of using cAMP-enhancing agents as a possible therapy for the disease.  Dr. Waypa received his M.S., and later his Ph.D., in Physiology and Cell Biology from Albany Medical College in 1997 and 1998, respectively. From 1998 to 2002, Dr. Waypa was a postdoctoral fellow with Paul T. Schumacker, Ph.D. at The University of Chicago.  In 2002, Dr. Waypa received an appointment from The University of Chicago as a Research Associate (Assistant Professor) where he continued to work with Dr. Schumacker.  In 2004, Dr. Waypa received an appointment from Northwestern University as a Research Assistant Professor where he is continuing his collaboration with Dr. Schumacker.  Currently, Dr. Waypa is studying hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV), which is a physiological response to low alveolar oxygen tension and, in cases where a small percentage of the lung alveoli are hypoxic, HPV improves lung gas exchange by redistributing blood flow away from those areas toward regions with better oxygenation.  Key to this research is understanding the mechanism of O2 sensing by the pulmonary vasculature and how this results in the generation of the HPV response.
1059270	cell cycle, knockout mice, breast cancer, cyclin, diabetes, pituitary, development, reproductive biology
1059361	Research interests include: Efforts include (1) basic biophysical mechanisms contributing to oxygen-sensitive contrast in MRI; (2) fast imaging methods to detect and stage coronary artery disease; (3) development of MR-based methods to understand and evaluate the mechanisms governing ischemic heart failure; (4) utilization of interventional MRI methods for delivering therapeutic substrates (stem cells, growth factors, etc.) following myocardial infarctions; and (5) development of MR molecular imaging methods in the assessment of cardiovascular disease.
1059384	Clinical and Translational Bioinformatics
1059611	Dr. Lebowitz is the founder and director of Cardiac Behavioral Medicine at the Bluhm Cardiovascular Institute at Northwestern. She is a licensed clinical health psychologist specializing in the heart-mind connection. She works exclusively with cardiac patients and helps them prepare for surgery, adjust to a new diagnosis, and cope with common emotional consequences of cardiac disease or cardiac surgery, including stress, depression, and anxiety. She teaches stress managment techniques, treats cardiac-related depression and anxiety and helps individuals initiate and maintain lifestyle changes to reduce their risk of heart disease.  Her research interests focus on the interplay between depression, stress, and cardiac health.   
1059636	My research activities focus mainly on asthma. Asthma exacerbations are mostly precipitated by common cold viruses. I am interested in elucidating the early mechanisms of respiratory viral infections that determine the severity of exacerbations in people with asthma. In addition, in collaboration with Dr. Esteban G. Burchard, M.D. from the University of California San Francisco and other investigators accross the US and abroad, we participate in a network of centers studying the genetic and environmental factors that influence the development and the severity of asthma in minority groups. Other research interests include pathogenesis of airway inflammation in allergic rhinitis and in asthma, and research in primary immunodeficiencies.
1059636	My research interests include investigations on how respiratory viruses cause asthma exacerbations, influenza virus infection, airway epithelial cells, asthma management and genetics of asthma. <br/>My clinical interests include allergic conditions such as allergic rhinitis, asthma, sinusitis, urticaria, skin allergic diseases, food allergy, insect allergy, as well as primary immunodeficiencies.
1059658	Clinical interests are in General Internal Medicine/Primary Care, Community Health and Hospital Medicine.  <br/>Research Interests are in Medical Education, Medical Decision Making, Simulation, Quality Improvement and Patient Safety.
1059672	test
1059840	Diabetic Nephropathy, Albuminuria, VEGF, TGF-beta, mouse models, MCP-1, podocyte motility, multiphoton microscopy
1059840	I work in the field of diabetic kidney disease, specifically looking at the role of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and podocytes in the pathogenesis of albuminuria. We have made some exciting discoveries that are being pursued with genetic mouse models.
1059841	My laboratory is interested in understanding the mechanisms behind allergic diseases. We employ both preclinical studies and clinical work to do this. One of our main goals is to better understand food allergy and we use animals models of anaphylaxis, as well as clinical studies on patient biopsy material to explore this.
1059841	We are interested in the mechanisms that regulate allergic sensitization. Using mouse models of allergic diseases, such as asthma, eczema and allergy to food, our research is focusing on how histamine and histamine receptors might influence the progression of allergic sensitization.
1059844	Local synaptic circuits in motor-frontal cortex engage in neural operations underlying many aspects of cognition and behavior ? motor control, executive functions, working memory, and more ? yet circuit organization at the synaptic, cellular, and molecular levels remains poorly understood in this agranular cortex. What is the functional organization of these synaptic pathways? What cellular and circuit-level operations do neurons in these perform? How do these local circuits communicate with each other and how do they interact with subcortical systems in the basal ganglia and thalamus? The focus of our laboratory is to apply multiple tools of quantitative synaptic circuit analysis to elucidate the functional ?wiring diagrams? of neocortical neurons in motor-frontal cortex. We use laser scanning photostimulation (LSPS) microscopy, based on glutamate uncaging and channelrhodopsin-2 excitation, for rapid functional mapping of synaptic pathways onto single neurons in brain slices of motor-frontal cortex. We are also applying a variety of circuit analysis tools in efforts to identify circuit-level mechanisms in mouse models of disease, including autism, Rett syndrome, epilepsy, and motor neuron diseases. Our lab is also involved in the development and maintenance of software tools for imaging and electrophysiology applications: www.scanimage.org, www.ephus.org.
1059904	Surgical Pathology<BR><BR><br/>The long-term objective of our research is to study molecular mechanism and chemoprevention of chronic inflammation-driven carcinogenesis. The specific areas of interest are 1) to develop a molecular mimicking model of ulcerative colitis-associated carcinogenesis in rodents, and further to elucidate the role of inflammation-caused and dietary iron-enhanced nitro-oxidative stress and inflammatory mediators in DNA damage, cell proliferation and inflammation-driven carcinogenesis; 2) to study the pathogenesis and molecular biomarkers of pancreatic carcinoma in genetically engineered mouse model and in human; and 3) to develop an efficient strategy on the prevention of chronic inflammation-driven carcinogenesis, particularly interested in dietary nutrients, antioxidants, green tea and inositol compounds and specifically targeted on colorectal, pancreatic, and liver carcinogenesis.
1059913	Synaptic plasticity is the process by which the strength of communication between neurons is modulated in response to stimuli. This process has emerged as the strongest candidate mechanism underlying information storage and processing. In the cerebral cortex, the majority of excitatory synapses found on pyramidal neurons occur on dendritic spines. Dendritic spines are highly dynamic structures and undergo many forms of structural modification. Spine remodelling occurs in concert with changes in post-synaptic function, driven by the trafficking of synaptic glutamate receptors. Thus, structural plasticity is thought to control neural circuit refinement and information storage. Neuromodulators, including dopamine, noradrenaline and neurosteroids, can dramatically influence synaptic plasticity, but much less is known about mechanisms by which these modulators control structural plasticity. Aberrant structural plasticity and neuromodulatory signalling have been extensively associated with neuropsychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorders and mental retardation. Conversely, increased structural plasticity, and regulation of neuromodulatory signals, can promote functional recovery from neurological disorders. Thus, one of the most important challenges in neuroscience is to uncover the mechanisms underlying structural plasticity during brain development. My work is centered on understanding how neuromodulators and neurosteroids control structural plasticity and the mechanisms that underlie these effects.
1060183	The overarching objective of the research ongoing in my laboratory is the identification of protein networks and signaling pathways that are functionally compromised in pediatric brain tumors to enable development of effective and safe individualized targeted therapies. Toward this goal, we are conducting a comprehensive integrative analysis of the genome, epigenome and transcriptome of these tumors and mapping all identified structural/functional alterations to protein networks and cellular processes with the aid of system's biology databases.
1060189	i am particularly interested in family and marital therapy and clinically am interested in childhood anxiety disorders and the autistic spectrum disorders.
1060317	My interests include osteoarthritis of the knee and hip and how dynamic loading (such as gait) can effect progression of the disease.  
1060325	<BR><BR><br/>My research interests are in the relationship between diet and cancer, particularly focusing on elucidating the role of dietary iron on inflammation-driven carcinogenesis in a molecular mimicking model of ulcerative colitis associated carcinogenesis in IL-2 deficient mice. I am also working on developing efficient chemopreventive agents in the inhibition of ulcerative colitis associated carcinogenesis. I am particularly interested in dietary nutrients, antioxidants, and green tea.
1060327	Mucosal Innate and adaptive immunity 
1060327	My research interests center on the immunological mechanisms involved in infectious and allergic diseases. My previous studies have ranged from investigations of infectious diseases in tropical endemic areas to molecular diagnosis and translational science. The shared mechanisms of pathogenesis between allergic and infectious diseases have been an active area of investigation. Recently, I have focused on epithelial cells biology and their role in inflammation, innate immunity and adaptive immunity.
1060342	1. Cancer Communications, Cancer Genetics, Outcome Measures, and Team Science:<br/>I have an interest to explore the possibility of setting up an Illinois Pediatric Tumor Registry Program for childhood cancer patients. Currently, the Tumor Registry managed by the American Cancer Society has a different staging documentation which is not easily interpretable by pediatric oncologists, and the Staging Form remains unfilled in the EMR of the patients. This staging process is crucial to pass certain standards of care; this Staging Form needs to be simplified for various  reasons. Trends in the epidemiology of pediatric cancer as it pertains to Illinois will be valuable information in health-care management. States like Florida and Delaware have Pediatric Tumor Registries. My goal is to study the advantages of such state-wide pediatric registries,explore the possibilities of funding for the same and help set up such a Pediatric Tumor Registry for Illinois.
2. Quality Improvement, Outcome Measures, Chemotherapy and Bacteriology: The goal is to improve turn-around time for CBC orders in the management of fever and neutropenia in pediatric oncology patients for quicker treatment response in this set of patients.
1060364	Recently, Dr. Buttin received a two-year award from the Sidney Kimmel Foundation for Cancer Research for her work studying molecular mechanisms that influence cell growth and metastasis in an aggressive subtype of endometrial cancer, uterine papillary serous carcinoma (UPSC). This work has since led to an additional grant from the National Cancer Institute as well as several smaller, foundation grants. She has authored several research articles on a novel biomarker to predict chemosensitivity and prognosis in UPSC as well as the role of defective DNA mismatch repair and hereditary cancer susceptibility in endometrial cancer focusing specifically on the MSH6 DNA mismatch repair gene.  Her current basic research includes the elucidation of pathways of carcinogenesis in uterine papillary serous carcinoma, its association with inherited cancer syndromes, as well as the prevalence of defective DNA mismatch repair in type II endometrial cancer.  Her clinical research focuses on the development of synuclein-gamma (SNCG) as a novel prognostic biomarker for high risk endometrial cancer and its association with chemoresistance.  Dr. Buttin is collaborating with the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) and has a special interest in novel chemotherapy and targeted agents for endometrial, cervical and ovarian cancer, treatment strategies for uterine sarcomas, as well as the role of radical surgery and minimally invasive surgery in the management of gynecologic malignancies.
1060531	My primary clinical and research area focuses on infections in transplant recipients.  My research is futher focused on viral infections, specifically respiratory viral infections (influenza, adenovirus) in transplant recipients.
1060553	My primary research interest is in promotion of healthy lifestyle (physical activity and nutrition) in persons with arthritis utilizing motivational interviewing.
1060566	I am currently a hepatologist with a strong interest in liver transplantation & complications. My main research interests are minimization or withdrawal (tolerance) of immunosupression and infection complications
1060566	Infectious disease, liver transplantation, immunosuppression, cirrhosis, bacterial infections, intestinal permeability
1060579	My primary clinical interests are pancreatic and swallowing disorders in children. <br/>I provide GI consultations for patients with cystic fibrosis in a multidisciplary setting at Children's Memorial Hospital. <br/>As part of the feeding team at Children's Memorial Hospital I evaluate young children with poor weight gain and feeding difficulties. This team consists of a feeding therapist, a nutritionist and a GI nurse.
1060618	My laboratory conducts research on behavioral risk factors (obesity, poor quality diet, physical inactivity, tobacco use). We also develop cutting-edge handheld technologies that support self-regulation and healthy behavior change.  Finally, we create on-line learning tools to support skill mastery in evidence-based practice and team science.
1060619	The overall goal of my research program is to understand the mechanisms of mammalian reproduction, in particular, how germline stem cells, meiosis and gamete differentiation, are regulated in mammals, using combined genetic, development and evolutionary approaches. We work with both mouse and Drosophila systems as well as cell culture to characterize the roles of highly conserved components of regulatory machinery for stem cell and reproductive development. We are also interested in translational research which extends our findings from animal models into reproductive medicine, in particular in our battles against reproductive cancers and infertility.
1060635	Clinically I practice pediatric emergency medicine while my academic  emphasis is healthcare professional education.  My specific interest is the use of simulation-based training to improve clinical decision-making, teamwork, and communication. Simulation-based training is well suited to help pediatric providers gain critical skills required to care for sick and injured children. A particular focus is effective debriefing strategies and developing faculty to use them in both simulation contexts as well as clinical settings. I have also designed and implemented a faculty development course that focuses on feedback and debriefing skills for healthcare educators in a variety of teaching venues.
1060674	Cognitive-Behavioral and Mindfulness- and Acceptance based Behavioral therapies for depression and anxiety disorders in adolescents and adults. Cognitive-behavioral stress management for multiple sclerosis and pain.
1060686	Exercise and Fitness in Women<br/>Preventive Cardiology<br/>Metabolic Syndrome
1060686	Principal Investigator of the St. James Women Take Heart Project<br/>Principal Investigator of STILETTO (Syndrome X Trial: Identifying underLying Endothelial dysfunction and Testing Treatment Outcomes in women) Study
1060688	CT and MR imaging of the central nervous system including the brain and spinal cord.<br/>Advanced neuroimaging techniques including CT and MR perfusion, time-resolved MR angiography, CT angiography, CSF flow imaging, and functional MRI.<br/>Spine procedures including myelography, vertebroplasty, diskography, image-guided biopsy, and steroid injections.<br/>Cerebral angiography
1060922	My clinical areas of interest is peri-operative quality of care of the cardiac and thoracic surgical patients.<br/>My primary areas of research interest are the control of breathing, peri-operative metabolic disorders, critical care outcomes, and resuscitation.<br/>My primary areas of education include curriculum design and problem-based learning discussions.
1060934	Dr. Sheean?s research goals are to combine clinical nutrition and epidemiology. Her general interests include evaluating nutrition therapies during illness, treatment and recovery, where she has specifically focused on the impact of parenteral nutrition on stem cell transplant outcomes and on enteral nutrition during critical illness. She is especially interested in translation research; exploring the impact of hospitalization on nutritional status and nutrition behaviors and increasing the recognition of these acute declines across disciplines. Dr. Sheean is also a Research Editor for the Journal of the American Dietetic Association and assists with the coordination and implementation of medical nutrition education at the Feinberg School of Medicine.
1061090	ENDOTHELIAL CELL FUNCTION DURING ALLERGIC DISEASE.<br/>Leukocyte migration from the blood into tissues is vital for immune surveillance and inflammation.   Specificity for the site of leukocyte migration is determined by the combination of adhesion molecules, cytokines and chemokines in the microenvironment. <br/>We have focused on the function of the endothelial cell adhesion molecule VCAM-1.  VCAM-1 is expressed on endothelial cells during atherosclerosis, allograft rejection, infection, and asthmatic responses. Furthermore, disruption of the mouse VCAM-1 gene impairs placentation and cardiac development resulting in embryo death.  Thus, VCAM-1 has important functions in development and disease.  As little was known regarding VCAM-1 signaling, we studied the molecular mechanisms for VCAM-1 signal transduction in endothelial cells in vitro and in vivo.<br/>Although it has traditionally been thought that VCAM-1 simply serves as a scaffold for leukocyte binding to endothelium, we have reported that it activates endothelial cell intracellular signal transduction pathways which result in endothelial cell shape changes and leukocyte passage. VCAM-1 activates endothelial cell NADPH oxidase resulting in the generation of low non-toxic levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS).  These ROS rapidly stimulate endothelial cell-associated  matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) which are required for VCAM-1-dependent lymphocyte migration. We have also demonstrated that in vivo administration of the antioxidant bilirubin blocks VCAM-1-dependent leukocyte migration into the lung in experimental asthma. <br/>Currently, there are two main research directions.  
1. We are examining mechanisms for VCAM-1-stimulated activation of endothelial cell NADPH oxidase, including studies of the structure/function of the cytoplasmic tail of VCAM-1.  We are also examining the mechanisms for ROS function in regulating endothelial cell intracellular signals.
2.  To further determine whether these VCAM-1 signals function in vivo, we are utilizing knockout and transgenic mouse models to examine VCAM-1-dependent infiltration of eosinophils in experimental asthma.  Pulmonary eosinophilia is one of the most consistent hallmarks of asthma. <br/>Information about the mechanisms that control leukocyte infiltration will provide a basis towards proposing interventions in VCAM-1-mediated processes in disease.    Moreover, limiting VCAM-1 dependent inflammation in chronic disease may be an advantageous target as it could spare VCAM-1-independent inflammation such as neutrophil clearance of infections.
1061208	My research interests are in 2 areas: 1. Tissue-specific regulation of gene expression, chromatin structure and modification in the context of the CFTR gene, that when mutated causes the common inherited disease Cystic Fibrosis. We identified and are characterizing intronic and extragenic elements that control CFTR gene expression, modulate the 3D structure of the locus and mediate tissue specificity. 
2. Pancreas Cancer. We are investigating the role of secreted proteoglycans (collagen XV and the MUC6 mucin) in initiation, invasion and metastasis of human pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
1061219	Russell G. Robertson, MD, is professor and chair of the Department of Family and Community Medicine at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.  He joined the Feinberg School?s leadership in October 2005.  He holds a B.A. in elementary education from Michigan State University and an MD from Wayne State University.  He completed his family medicine residency in Grand Rapids, Michigan before joining the Medical College of Wisconsin (MCW) in Milwaukee.  He was recruited from MCW, where he had served as interim chair of the Department of Family and Community Medicine and most recently as the associate dean for faculty affairs.  He began his professional career as an elementary and junior high school teacher in suburban Detroit.<br/>Dr. Robertson was one of 17 physicians nationwide appointed to the Council on Graduate Medical Education by the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services in 2003.  Now chair of the Council since 2008, Dr. Robertson and his fellow members advise Congress and the Department of Health and Human Services on issues related to physician supply and distribution.  In this capacity he has been invited to serve on a number of national and international workforce bodies.<br/>Dr. Robertson?s interest in medical education has evolved to an international level.  He is the Associate Director for Global Education for Northwestern?s Center for Global Health.  He also serves as president of the board of Hillside Healthcare International, which supports a clinic in Punta Gorda, Belize, Central America.<br/>Dr. Robertson also holds a certificate of added qualification in geriatrics.
1061234	My central clinical interests are trauma-related disorders (acute stress disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, complex trauma), mood disorders, and physician health and wellness.  I am very involved in graduate medical education and educational research in medical education, especially clinical skills training and evaluation and the development of professionalism during residency.
1061501	Dr. Yerkes primary concentrations are reconstruction of complex genitourinary anomalies, medical and surgical management of neurogenic bladder, disorders of sex development,  hypospadias, and congenital vaginal anomalies and urogynecology.
1061503	Dr. Chaviano's clinical concentrations include pediatric urologic reconstruction, hypospadias, hydronephrosis and fetal urology.
1061598	Dr. Rothrock?s research interests include psychosocial aspects of chronic illness, psychosocial oncology, quality of life, patient-provider communication, and distress and symptom management.
1061645	Reproductive genetics; graduate training and education, finance and reimbursement, genetic service delivery models, psychosocial issues and decision making in genetic counseling.
1061682	Understanding the group dynamics and interpersonal processes in group decision-making as it relates to IRB and IACUC review and approval processes.  Development of effective programs for the protection of human subjects.  Research on attitudes about spirituality and religiosity in psychology graduate students as well as graduate students in other health sciences, and research on training programs in multi-culturalism as they relate to spirituality in the clinical domain.
1061719	Dr. Keefer is an NIH-funded investigator with a research interest in the application of behavioral interventions to chronic gastrointestinal diseases including Ulcerative Colitis, Crohns Disease and Irritable Bowel Syndrome.  
1061719	I am funded by the NIH to design and test behavioral interventions for chronic gastrointestinal disorders, including Inflammatory Bowel Disease (Ulcerative Colitis, Crohns Disease) and Irritable Bowel Syndrome.  My most recent interests include the effects of a brief self-management program for patients with Crohns Disease and the behavioral phenotyping of esophageal disorders.
1061813	Primary research interests include any rehabilitation topics involving brain injury and stroke survivors.
1061814	My clinical and research pursuits have focused on improving health-related quality of life (HRQL) in people with cancer, neurological disorders and other chronic medical conditions (e.g., Spinal Cord Injury, Traumatic Brain Injury, Burn/Orthopedic Injury, COPD, Sarcoidosis, HIV, Coronary Heart Disease). Specific interests include stress reduction and CAM-based interventions in oncology, self management support interventions using health information technology, and developing patient reported outcomes measures in HRQL, disease symptoms, coping/adjustment and resilience. I was the Principal Investigator on a 1-year hospital funded Pilot Grant to examine HRQL and self management support preferences in a prostate cancer sample and am currently the Principal Investigator of a hospital-funded RCT examining the effects of a mindfulness-based stress reduction intervention for men diagnosed with prostate cancer who are on active surveillance. I am the site Principal Investigator on two NIH-funded grants (NCI: Reflexology for Women with Advanced Breast Cancer; NCMRR: Quality of Life for SCI Clinical Trails: Development of the SCI-QOL;). In addition, I serve as a Co-Investigator on an NINDS-funded study (Neuro-QOL; PI: D Cella) to develop patient reported outcomes measures for neurology clinical trials research. Since 2003 I have led a mindfulness-based stress management class at Evanston Hospital for people with chronic medical conditions and their caregivers.
1061842	PI in Fetal data base
1061843	The primary thrust of our research team has focused on studies to identify the basic biological processes that regulate adaptation of malignant tumor cells to stressful environments, such as those produced by anti-cancer drugs, and thereby permit their survival in the presence of agents that would normally kill them. Understanding these processes will help cancer researchers develop novel chemotherapeutic strategies. Our group has directed our recent attention to the understanding of cancer cell behavior and in particular on the molecular basis underlying resistance of neuroblastoma cells to chemotherapy.
1061875	The Molecular Basis of Wilms' Tumor<br/>The Sprouty  Proteins<br/>The Molecular Biology of Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia<br/>The Molecular Basis of Multiple Myeloma<br/>Molecular Basis of Myeloproliferative Disease
1061890	I currently serve as the Medical Director of Sports Medicine for the United States Navy Recruit Training Command/CAPT James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center.  <br/>I am Board Certified in Family Medicine and hold a Certificate of Added Qualifications in Sports Medicine.
1061909	I am a Research Assistant Professor in Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, with the research focuses on age-related eye disease, such as age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy.   I am an advanced degree professional in this field by virtue of the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Ophthalmology from Weifang Medical College and Peking University, respectively. Recent growth in clinical and translational research has heightened the need for a competent clinical research workforce in industry and academia. I am currently in the Graduate Certificate Program in the School of Continuing Studies-Clinical Research and Regulatory Administration. 
1061921	Neural degeneration, glial responses, signal transduction, gene expression profiling, genetic susceptibility, optic neuropathy,transcriptional regulation. 
1062000	Elizabeth R. Ryan, Ed.D. graduated from Loyola University of Chicago with a doctorate degree in Education in May 2006.  She has worked in both family medicine and surgical education, holding administrative staff positions in both graduate and undergraduate programs, from April 1995 ? February 2006.   Dr. Ryan contributed to the Department of Surgery?s redesign of the undergraduate and graduate program curriculum; was an invited member of the Department of Surgery?s Think Tank Consortium; is a Co-Leader for Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine?s Community Engagement and Service Competency; is the Teaching Selective Course Director; and the Co-Course Director for Patient Physician and Society IV.  Dr. Ryan joined the Department of Family and Community Medicine faculty as an Assistant Professor and the Vice Chair of Education in March 2006.
1062051	End of Life care; medication compliance, depression, clinical and economic evaluation, patient report outcome
1062103	Surgical Pathology
1062105	Epigenetic control of Cytomegalovirus(CMV) immediate early gene transcription during establishment of latency and reactivation from latency.
1062189	The primary research is in the field of neurophysiologic monitoring during cerebral aneurysm surgery in particular and neurophysiologic monitoring in head and spine surgeries in general.
1062414	My area of interest is in health care disparities research and I serve as the principal investigator for a number of national studies examining quality of care for diverse populations. I am currently an investigator for the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation?s national initiative, Aligning Forces for Quality, and  lead the disparities/equity component of this project. In addition, my research focuses on quality of care in the health care safety net.
1062886	My research is focused on the mechanisms and prevention of sudden unexplained death in epilepsy (SUDEP). I am also interested in cortical plasticity and functional mapping in patient undergoing epilepsy surgery. <br/>Outside of epilepsy, I am involved in clincal care and research of musicians with medical problems related to their instrument, in particular focal task specific dystonia. 
1062956	I am interested in research involving novel technologies in neurosurgery.
1062975	neural-machine engineering, myoelectric control, EMG modeling, biomedical signal processing, Bioelectromagnetism
1063005	Dr. Simon's primary research interests are aimed at eliminating health disparities among low income, medically underserved women across the lifespan.  Integrating health services research with social epidemiologic models, Dr. Simon's research focuses on interventions (such as patient navigation and community health outreach workers) that aim to reduce and eliminate such disparities.  Within this context, Dr. Simon prefers to leverage culture and community to achieve these goals and thereby integrates community based participatory research framework into her work.
1063045	My primary academic/clinical interest is in quality, information systems, patient safety, care-pathways and administrative medicine relating to; creating/supporting evidence-based approaches to patient care, establishing standards, developing process/protocols to support the standards and globally reducing multidisciplinary practice variance.
1063052	I have been interested in both clinical and basic research. My clinical research interest includes Echocardiography especially in the field of 3D Echocardiography; valvular heart disease, woman's heart disease, coronary artery disease and cardiomyopathy. My basic research interest is in hypertension and heart failure.
1063096	Jason Kane is an Attending Physician in the division of Pediatric Critical Care Medicine at Children?s Memorial Hospital and an Assistant Professor of Pediatrics at Northwestern University?s Feinberg School of Medicine.  He graduated from the Medical College of Rush University in Chicago, completed his training in Pediatrics at Indiana University and Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis, and attended the Medical College of Wisconsin and the Children?s Hospital of Wisconsin in Milwaukee where he completed his Fellowship in Pediatric Critical Care.  In 2009, Doctor Kane obtained his Masters of Science Degree in Patient Safety and Healthcare Quality from Northwestern University.  Doctor Kane?s primary clinical focus is cardiac intensive care where he is responsible for directing the recovery and ICU management of children who have undergone open-heart surgery to repair congenital heart defects.  His research interests include pediatric patient safety, healthcare quality, and near-infrared spectroscopy monitoring in the intensive care unit.
1063149	My research interests revolve around the neural mechanisms supporting selective attention and cognitive control, and their interaction with motivational/emotional factors.
1063212	Dr. Fangusaro has an expertise and specialty training in treating children with central nervous system malignancies, including brain and spinal cord tumors.  His primary area of research interest is in the development of clincal trials, novel therapeutics and relevant biologic correlates in pediatric brain tumors in an effort to improve survival outcomes and minimize toxicities.  He devotes much of his time to clinical trial research and has developed numerous collaborations with basic scientists in an effort to advance translational and clinical initiatives.
1063230	The research of the Economics of Movement group shows that movement and movement learning are similar in many respects. Our Sensors (Eyes, Ears, Skin etc) are not perfect but are noisy. Moreover, our muscles are noisy and if we try to do the same movement over and over it will be different each time. This means that if we make a movement, say swing a golf club, we will have uncertainty in the potential movement outcomes. Our group studies how people make movement decisions in the presence of such uncertainty. Our research has three main thrusts. (1)We study experimentally how people move and how their movements are affected by uncertainty. (2) We build computational models using Bayesian statistics to calculate how people could move optimally or learn to move optimally. (3) We build Bayesian Algorithms to solve problems that we find interesting. For example we analyze how neurons are connected in the nervous system. (4) We use mobile phone and gaming technology to improve rehabilitation and to improve diagnoses.<br/>The main thrust of our current research is to allow for better rehabilitation procedures through an understanding of motor learning.
1063304	Over the last 10 years, I have gained considerable experience with both MRI and MRS in clinical practice and research; in research settings my primary interest has been the development of molecular and cellular imaging methods. I am also very familiar with small animal tumor models and have conducted extensive molecular and cell biology research; I am highly proficient in the use of optical imaging, cell culture, gene expression techniques and FACS analysis. I was appointed to my current faculty position at NWU after a short time working for VirtualScopics where my role was to direct the imaging component of clinical trials. Given my multi-disciplinary background (and the broad range of skill-sets provided by my close collaborators) I am ideally suited to develop MRI-monitored cellular therapies for the treatment of pancreatic cancer.
1063334	I am examining issues relating to neuromusclular control of voice pitch and volume. I am also examining the use of novel carbon dioxide laser technologies in the surgical management of laryngeal and trachel pathologies
1063382	My clinical interests encompass all of general obstetrics and gynecology, including well-woman care, obstetric care, office procedures, contraception, and women's mental health issues, to name a few.<br/>My research projects focus on delivery of health care and patient outcomes. The large obstetric volume at Prentice Women's Hospital allows us to perform large, high-quality studies to answer important questions about pregnancy and delivery care.  We recently completed a large study looking at epistaxis (nose-bleeds) during pregnancy, and found that women with more nose bleeds were more likely to suffer excessive bleeding at delivery. n another project, we examined women with infections during labor (chorioamnionitis) to create a scoring system that allows us to predict which women will become septic. I am also interested in the social and psychological aspects of reproduction and childbearing,and just completed another project looking prospectively at obsessive-compulsive disorder in pregnancy and postpartum, which turns out to be unexpectedly common. I will next be creating a 'Global Assessment of the Postpartum Woman' to get a more comprehensive picture of the mental health challenges women face postpartum.
1063384	Major depression, affective neuroscience, translational research, treatment for mood disorders
1063472	Lynette Craft, PhD is a Kinesiologist and her research interests focus on the relationships among physical activity and mental and physical health.  Specifically, Dr. Craft examines the use of structured exercise interventions to reduce symptoms of depression and improve quality of life.  In addition, she investigates the potential mechanisms underlying these relationships.   She has examined these associations in several patient populations such as individuals with clinical depression, cancer survivors, and smokers attempting smoking cessation. A secondary interest in her current work is identifying the psychosocial factors that predict exercise adherence in these various groups.
1063490	Sonya Rasminsky is the Director of Medical Student Education in psychiatry at Northwestern Feinberg School of Medicine. She sees patients for psychotherapy and medication management.  Her clinical interests include women's mental health and student mental health.
1063502	My graduate work so far has been directed at health professional epistemology in context - the relationship among clinicians, academics and political actors and its effects on clinical decision making. I hope to continue this in my dissertation (in disability studies) in relation to understandings of disability within curriculum development in healthcare professions and medicine.
1063635	Medical Director of Consultation-Liason and Emergency Services<br/>Dept of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry<br/>Clinical interests include the recognition and treatment of delirium in medically hospitalized patients. 
1063665	Glucocorticoids are the most frequently prescribed medicine today and they are indispensable in the treatment of asthma, inflammation, and cancer.  However, two concerns regarding glucocorticoid use remain unresolved.  One is that high-dose or long-term glucocorticoids result in troublesome side effects such as metabolic syndrome and osteoporosis; the other is that some patients do not respond to glucocorticoids.  We tackle both questions by examining the glucocorticoid receptor.  Translational isoforms of glucocorticoid receptors were recently discovered in our lab and they provide insights into the mechanisms of action of glucocorticoids.  Ribosomal shunting and leaky scanning processes generate translational glucocorticoid receptor isoforms. These receptor isoforms have distinct cell-killing and cytokine-suppression capabilities in a bone cancer cell model system.  Currently, we are identifying and characterizing the receptor isoforms in different populations of immune cells in diseases such as asthma and cancer. This line of research has implications in several other fields in addition to immunology and oncology.  For instance, our findings in glucocorticoid receptor biology have significant impact on research in endocrinology as well.
1063665	Glucocorticoids are the most frequently prescribed medicine today and they are indispensable in the treatment of asthma, inflammation, and cancer. However, two concerns regarding glucocorticoid use remain unresolved. One is that high-dose or long-term glucocorticoids result in troublesome side effects such as metabolic syndrome and osteoporosis; the other is that some patients do not respond to glucocorticoids. We tackle both questions by examining the glucocorticoid receptor. Translational isoforms of glucocorticoid receptors were recently discovered in our lab and they provide insights into the mechanisms of action of glucocorticoids. Ribosomal shunting and leaky scanning processes generate translational glucocorticoid receptor isoforms. These receptor isoforms have distinct cell-killing and cytokine-suppression capabilities in a bone cancer cell model system. Currently, we are identifying and characterizing the receptor isoforms in different populations of immune cells in diseases such as asthma and cancer. This line of research has implications in several other fields in addition to immunology and oncology. For instance, our findings in glucocorticoid receptor biology have significant impact on research in endocrinology as well.
1063829	My research focuses on the utilization of agent-based modeling for multi-scale modeling of acute inflammation. Agent levels include cells and molecules, with the goal of simulating organ- and organism-level behaviors from these generative mechanisms. While the focus of my models have primarily been on the pathophysiology of sepsis and multiple organ failure, in a more general sense I am interested in using agent-based modeling as a means of dynamic knowledge representation to augment the biomedical research process. With respect to acute inflammation, the ubiquitousness of the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms suggest the application of this methodology to such area as oncogenesis, transplant immunology/rejection, autoimmune disease, wound healing/scarring, atherosclerosis and aging. I am currently using NetLogo as my primary agent-based modeling platform, but am involved with the development of SPARK (Simple Platform for Agent-based Representation of Knowledge http://www.pitt.edu/~cirm/spark/ ) currently being done at the University of Pittsburgh. I am also interested in automated text analysis/information extraction from biomedical texts, formal knowledge representation in biomedicine and the development of methods for evolving biomedical ontologies. These goals form a 'front-end' to high-level modeling tools (such as MetaABM http://www.metascapeabm.com/ ) and are intended to facilitate the ability for biomedical knowledge to be represented, communicated and evaluated via executable models. I am also involved in projects directed at developing methods to execute ABMs on massively parallel computing platforms. I believe this is a vital development necessary for true, multi-scale, biologically relevant simulation.
1063851	neurocritical care, status epilepticus, subarachnoid hemorrhage, neurogenic respiratory failure, intracerebral hemorrhage, Guillain-Barre syndrome, central nervous system infections, clostridial diseases, bioterrorism
1063926	My primary interests lie in the assessment, diagnosis and treatment of trauma in the lives of children and women, with an emphasis on serving traditionally under served populations.  I have a particular interest in efforts to make services maximally culturally sensitive and relevant for various (sub)cultures.
1064003	Dr. Kwiatek's research interests are in the area of the gastrointestinal motility with special focus on the clinical physiology of the esophagus and stomach, monitoring of gastroesophageal reflux, use of manometry and novel technologies to define the extent of gastrointestinal disorders and potential future diagnostic parameters.
1064120	My primary interest is developing and evaluating technology-assisted behavioral and psychological interventions.  I am also interested in the relationship between stress, depression and inflammation, particularly in multiple sclerosis.
1064162	Early intervention and prevention of kidney disease
1064178	Interests in clinical quality improvement
1064217	Interesting in identifying and developing novel therapeutics in patients with advanced cardiac and vascular diseases.
1064232	Primary research interest include the quality of life related to families of children with feeding disorders, clinical imaging related to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in children, and lifestyle interventions used to treat childhood and familial obesity.
1064279	Mechanisms of normal and malignant blood cell development
1064279	Research in the Crispino lab is focused on investigating the regulatory mechanisms governing normal and malignant blood cell development, with an emphasis on understanding the growth of erythroid cells (red blood cells) and megakaryocytes (platelet-producing cells). In addition, we are greatly interested in learning how changes in normal essential regulatory molecules lead to human blood diseases, including leukemias, myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and myeloproliferative diseases (MPD). 
1064350	* Promotion of collaborative studies in stem cell biology<br/>    * Focus on genetic regulations of stem cell lineages, directed differentiation and utilization for therapy<br/>    * Study of human diseases using hESCs and iPSCs with genetic genetic mutations<br/>    * Development of repository of hESCs and iPSCs
1064405	Our research is dedicated to bring molecular advances in the pathogenesis and therapy of human brain tumors to clinical application. Our laboratory aims to identify new therapeutic leads for patients with high-grade gliomas and to develop tools that allow predicting an individual patient?s likelihood to benefit from a certain treatment regimen. Our work integrates complex molecular tumor data generated by the complementary and iterative application of data-driven (genome-wide analysis) and hypothesis-driven research approaches and corresponding clinical patient profiles.
1064439	My graduate training in clinical psychology reflected my strong interest in the assessment of the affective and cognitive sequelae of medical illness. Over the past several years, I have become increasingly interested in the development of psychometrically robust, patient-reported outcome (PRO) tools in the hopes that such assessment will lead to improvements in patient quality of life, clinical care and health care policy. While I have experience in PRO research in neurological illness and cancer, I have been increasingly interested in the development and application of PROs in the post-surgical context, especially with respect to organ transplantation.
1064445	My research interest is to evaluate the effects of genetic and environmental factors as well as gene-environment (GxE) interactions on complex human diseases, with a particular focus on allergic diseases and preterm birth.
1064467	My main clinical interest is the diagnosis and treatment of primary immunodeficiency diseases and my research interest is focused on elucidating the pathogenesis of primary immune deficiency diseases, understanding the natural history of these diseases and developing novel approaches to their therapy. Lymphocyte development is another area of interest, which ties in closely with primary immunodeficiency disease as many of these diseases results from failure of lymphocyte development.  In addition, I am also interested in the immunopathogenesis of allergic diseases especially food allergy and the mechanisms involved in the development of tolerance to allergens.
1064580	The main focus of my research program is to study breast and prostate cancer progression. Our starting point is a gene named MASPIN, a unique member of SERPIN family that plays roles in normal tissue development, tumor metastasis, and angiogenesis. Genetic studies by my laboratory using maspin transgenic and knockout mice demonstrated an important role of maspin in normal mammary, prostate, and embryonic development.  Recently, we have identified several new properties of maspin. As a protein that is present on cell surface, maspin controls cell-ECM adhesion. We believe that this function is responsible for maspin-mediated suppression of tumor cell motility and invasion. We have also discovered that maspin is involved in the induction of tumor cell apoptosis through a mitochondrial death pathway. The long-term goals of our maspin project are to elucidate the molecular mechanism by which maspin controls cell adhesion and apoptosis, and to analyze the effect of maspin on mammary gland and other tissue development, and to study the effect of loss of maspin on early mammary lesions and late stage tumor progression. We believe that these analyses are not only important for basic biology and but also may lead to a therapy for cancer and other developmental diseases.In addition to the maspin project, my laboratory has also established mouse mammary tumor models to study the unique process of tumor metastasis in particular. For example, we have established a new mouse mammary tumor cell line, which spontaneously metastasizes to the bone upon inoculation to the mammary fat pads of BALB/c syngeneic mice.  Comparison of gene expression profile between highly metastatic tumor cells and non-metastatic cells by Affymetrix microarray has identified a list of candidate genes, which might play roles in breast cancer bone metastasis. We have also used these animal models for gene therapy. These studies will likely open new directions for cancer treatment in the near future.
1064657	1. Mechanisms and physiology of Interleukin-10 mediated attenuation of cardiovascular injury and inflammation. These studies have an overall focus to understand the role of inflammation in exacerbating post-injury myocardial functions and tissue repair. The strategy involves utilizing IL-10, a potent anti-inflammatory cytokine, to inhibit the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators. Past studies delineated the mechanisms by which IL-10 imparts its inhibitory action and showed that on molecular level, IL-10 acts mainly via post-transcriptional de-stabilization of mRNA half-life by suppressing mRNA stabilizing protein HuR which binds to mRNAs harboring specific A+U rich sequences in their 3? untranslated regions.  Current studies are expanded utilize IL-10 and its direct downstream target HuR, as potential therapeutic approaches to inhibit inflammation in post-myocardial infarction in animal models and to elucidate signaling pathways that govern IL-10 actions both in vitro and in vivo (Rajasingh et al, FASEB J, 2006; Krishnamurthy et al, Circ Res., 2009, Krishnamurthy et al., FASEB J, 2010). 2. Epigenetic reprogramming of somatic cells to generate induced pluripotent cells and mechanisms of embryonic stem cell differentiation into cardiovascular linage cells. One component of this research focuses on to understand the molecular and signaling mechanisms governing directed differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells into cardiomyocytes (Rajasingh J et al, Circ. Res., 2007).  The second project in regenerative and stem cell biology that we have developed is to epigenetically reprogram adult somatic cells into ES-like cells (iPS cells) by utilizing cell-free ES cell protein extracts thereby bypassing the use of retroviral mediated forced expression of exogeneous transgenes (Rajasingh J et al, Circ Res., 2008). Studies are ongoing to address the mechanisms of somatic cell reprogramming and to define the role of critical epigenetic factors required for this transition.
1064657	CURRENT RESEARCH INTERESTS
1 )  To understand molecular mechanisms and signal transduction involved in the inflammatory cytokines (e.g. TNF-alpha)-induced dysfunction of endothelial cells (EC) in cell culture model system and the mechanisms of cytokine regulation on the healing of endothelium in vivo in moue models of carotid artery denudation (equivalent to balloon angioplasty in patients). We have established that locally secreted TNF acts to inhibit endothelial recovery leading to restenosis, partly via inducing cell cycle arrest in ECs (Kishore, Circulation Research 2002, 2003; JCI, 2005),although complete molecular mechanisms and signal transduction pathways involved therein are yet to be deciphered. Understanding of EC gene regulation may potentially help finding target molecules whose modulation can nullify deleterious effects of TNF. Another component of this project involves elucidating trans-factors involved in posttranscriptional (mRNA stability) regulation of TNF by anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 (Rajasingh, Kishore, FASEB J, 2006).
2)  To understand the molecular and signaling mechanisms governing directed differentiation of mouse embryonic (Rajasingh, Circulation Research; 2007) and adult stem cells and oocyte-independent means for the de-differentiation of adult somatic cells to generate stem-like cells and to assess the therapeutic efficacy of these cells towards tissue repair in mouse models of surgically induced myocardial infarction and other ischemic injuries.
3) To study and understand the role of long-term alcohol consumption (chronic alcoholism) on cardiovascular system. Chronic ethanol inhibits cell survival signaling by various mechanisms, including but not limited to the enhanced release of TNF and other pro-inflammatory cytokines. Our studies indicate that in vitro chronic ethanol exposure exerts inhibitory effects on EC proliferation and survival (Luedemann, Kishore, Alco Clin Exp Res, 2005; Rajasingh, Kishore, Endocrinology, 2007). Chronic ethanol not only elevates agonist-induced TNF expression in EC but also exacerbates TNF-mediated EC dysfunction, synergistically. Our current studies are focused toward understanding the biology of ethanol-induced EC dysfunction in ethanol-fed rodent models as wells as towards understanding the underlying molecular mechanisms in cell culture model system.
1064699	Working with children suffering from diminished daily school and social performance as evidenced, perhaps in ADD/ADHD, perhaps relating to allergy, or both, by attempting to objectively quantify clinical findings through computerized performance testing (MMAT technology). 
1064705	My primary research and academic interests are in the development of young scientists. My work in this arena spans the continuum including: the 'basic science' of how undergraduate and PhD student fine tune career decision with a longitudinal study of 500 students; application and study of new coaching-based models to support early PhD students; use of group-based modesls to assist junior faculty develop as scientists; a randomized controlled trial of a totaly different approach to fostering diversity in academia.
1064839	Within the field of Otolaryngology, my area of interest and expertise is in head and neck surgery specifically for cancer.  I am particularly interested in trans-oral endoscopic removal of tumors, as well as reconstructive surgery following tumor removal including free tissue transfer.  I would also like to expand surgical services to include trans-oral robotic surgery (TORS) at Northwestern.
1064942	My primary interest is pediatric airway obstruction and pediatric upper airway reconstruction specifically laryngomalacia and its surgical treatment - supraglottoplasty. I am also interested in the Diagnosis and Medical and Surgical Treatment of Pediatric Dysphagia.  Specifically, I am interested in how congenital and acquired airway lesions affect a child?s ability to eat and swallow.     <br/>  My interest also include the medical and surgical treatment of pediatric obstructive sleep apnea and sinusitis.
1064948	Educational Research, Curriculum Development, Technology Enhanced Instruction, Faculty <br/>Development, Program Evaluation
1064963	I have a primary interest in the evaluation of assessment and reduction of risk for harm to self or others; psychic harm; boundary issues; disability; fitness for duty; closed head injury; competence to stand trial; sanity/mitigation in criminal cases; and correctional mental health.
1065018	Integrative medicine (complementary/alternative medicine) in pediatrics.<br/>I have training in medical acupuncture, medical hypnosis and homeopathy and am interested in the use of integrative medicine.
1065021	Measuring health outcomes using modern psychometrics including item response theory and computerized adaptive testing
1065026	Genetics, Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer, Minimally invasive surgery (Robotics, laparoscopy, management of pelvic masses, endometrial ablation, tubal ligation/sterilization), In-office procedures (Essure, Novasure), Management of abnormal pap smears, Menopause, Fibroids, Contraeption, Normal and complicated pregnancies (twins, advanced maternal age)
1065034	Developmental biology of urogenital organs.
1065059	Hypochondriasis as psychiatric diagnosis; hypochondria/disease anxiety as a problem for primary care; cultural narratives regarding health/disease and their role in fostering anxiety about disease and about health care. The role of narrative in patients', physicians', and biomedical scientists' thinking about the inside of the living human body. The place of fear and uncertainty in medical epistemology.
1065060	My clinical and research interests pertain to the nutritional support of newborns.  I am currently collecting fatty acid levels of premature neonates with long exposures to intravenous lipid emulsions.  My long term goal is to improve the quality of the constituents of parenteral nutrition that we provide to neonates, both preterm and term populations.  I also work to promote the provision of breast milk as a newborn?s primary form of nutrition.
1065061	Dr. Richard Lee practices the full spectrum of adult cardiac surgery and has special interests in surgical treatments of atrial fibrillation, mitral valve repair, tricuspid valve repair, and surgical alternatives to heart transplantation.
1065062	Dr. Andrew J. Fishman is an Otologist/Neurotologist, Skull Base Surgeon, and Cochlear Implant specialist at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. Dr. Fishman holds an appointment to the departments of Otolaryngology and Neurosurgery at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.   <br/>      He has performed pivotal research with Dr. Claus-Peter Richter M.D. Ph.D. -Director of the Otolaryngology Laser Research Laboratory on laser nerve stimulation for hearing, and clinical research, which ultimately lead to the development of one of the cochlear implant electrodes currently in use today.<br/>    In 2005, he went on a yearlong medical mission to South India, where he developed a Transtemporal Cranial Base Surgery Program at the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS) in the city of Cochin, Kerala. He was appointed as Consultant in the disciplines of Otolaryngology, Head & Neck Surgery and Skull Base Neurosurgery.  During that time, he also worked as a surgical consultant for one of the major cochlear implant companies, training doctors in surgical implantation techniques.      <br/>    In 2007 Dr. Fishman was granted the honorary appointment of International Professor at the Nicolas Copernicus University in Poland for his work in that country over the past 10 years.  Today, he continues to be an active participant in the development of acoustic neuroma, neurofibromatosis II, and skull base tumor surgery in a center which he developed at the University Hospital of Dr Jurasz in Bydgoszcz, making invited visits to lend surgical support and training to the physicians of the Neurosurgery and Otolaryngology Departments.  In 2007 Dr. Fishman organized a joint international surgical mission where he and the members of the Indian Cranial Base Surgery Team from the Amrita Institute came to perform a series of challenging surgeries on patients in Poland with rare and unusual tumors.  Observers were invited from the local area hospitals including the regional NATO medical center.
1065069	As Associate Director of Surgical Clerkship, interests and research are focused on Curriculum Development and Case-based learning. Thesis research focused on cultural diversity within a community college health career program.  <br/>Clinical background is in Trauma and Emergency Medical Services.
1065133	1. The use of clinical use of echocardiography in pediatric cardiovascular disease. 
2. The use of exercise testing in pediatric cardiovascular disease and the development of a wellness center. 
1065171	MRI, Functional Neuroimaging, Head & Neck
1065196	My primary research interests are in Pediatric Education and Pediatric Hospitalist Medicine - particularly in medical observation.
1065215	Dr. Lowe is a nationally and internationally recognized expert in robotic and minimally invasive surgery for gynecologic cancers. He has been honored at the national/international level with numerous presentations on minimally invasive surgery. For several years, Dr. Lowe has taught laparoscopy and robotics throughout the United States and recently Italy to gynecologic surgeons and oncologists.  His surgical videos (on YouTube) have been selected for presentation at national/international meetings for the American Association of Gynecologic Laparoscopists, Society of Gynecologic Oncologists, and the American College of Surgeons. Additionally, he was one of the first gynecologic oncologists to receive certification on the da Vinci Surgical System in the United States in 2006 and performed the first robotic surgery for endometrial cancer in the Mid-South region of the United States.
1065270	Dr. Ho?s primary interests involve improving the accessibility to mental health services and prevention programs in ethnic minority populations. She is especially interested in exploring new ways to achieve these goals, including how communications technology may be used to promote health and prevent mental illness.
1065283	I am a hospitalist working in General Medicine (inpatient service),Medical Observation Unit, Pediatric Intensive Care Unit and Sedation for Medical Imaging.  I am involved in resident and medical student education during service time on General Medicine and Sedation.
1065385	My clinical interests involve the inpatient care of Hematology and Oncology patients as a Hospital Medicine and Infectious Diseases specialist.
1065656	My research involves the substantiation that bone marrow derived cells have an immunoregulatory capacity that can influence the induction of clinical tolerance (the elimination of maintenance immunosuppressive drugs).  This includes the development of sophisticated monitoring techniques to detect the immune status of the recipient and the appearance of these regulatory cells in the bone marrow, peripheral blood, and transplanted organ in the recipient.  <br/>I am currently conducting a clinical trial at Northwestern in 20 such HLA-identical living donor kidney transplant recipients of donor stem cells, along with the transplanted organ, and following the recipient for the detection of these immune regulatory functions.
1065729	My lab studies the inflammatory response at the cellular and molecular level.  We are focused on the process of diapedesis, the 'point of no return' in inflammation where leukocytes squeeze between tightly apposed endothelial cells to enter the site of inflammation.  We have identified and cloned several molecules that are critical to the process of diapedesis (PECAM (CD31), CD99, and VE-cadherin) and are studying how they regulate the inflammatory response using in vitro and in vivo models.  We have recently described the Lateral Border Recycling Compartment, a novel para-junctional organelle that contains PECAM and CD99 and is critical for diapedesis to occur. We are currently investigating how this compartment regulates diapedesis in the hope of finding novel targets for anti-inflammatory therapy.
1065776	Clinical Interests: Musculoskeletal injuries, Sporting Event coverage, mass participation events.<br/>Research Interests: Clinical Operations in the Emergency Department, Patient Satisfaction, Mass participation events, Sports Injuries, Procedural teaching.
1065793	Clinical interests include percutaneous aortic valve replacement, minimally-invasive aortic valve replacement, aortic valve repair, valve-sparing aortic root replacement, aortic arch repair, endovascular stent-grafts, thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair. Research interests include Marfan syndrome, bicuspid aortic valve, thoracic aortic aneurysm.
1065795	Pediatrics and Urgent Care
1065833	<BR><BR><br/>Cytopathology
1065940	My primary interest is in development of vaccine candidates for herpes simplex virus.  I also study herpes simplex disease in newborns, specifically focusing on the role of the different entry receptors on pathogenesis of disease.  I also have projects related to increasing our understanding of immune responses to chronic viral infections and mucosal infections, including herpes simplex.
1065960	Clinically, my interests encompass all classical hematology, including thrombosis/clotting disorders, thrombophilia/inherited clotting disorders.  Bleeding disorders.  Platelet disorders including ITP/autoimmune thrombocytopenia.  Anemias (including sickle cell anemia, autoimmune hemolytic anemia, pure red blood cell aplasia, etc). Aplastic anemia.  Chronic myeloproliferative disorders including polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, eosinophilia, & myelofibrosis.  Hematologic issues in unique patient populations, including solid organ transplant and autoimmune/rheumatologic diseases. <br/>Research interests include evaluating mechanisms of thrombosis particularly in malignancy, investigating new ways to evaluate the clotting system/platelet function, identification of those patients at high risk for thrombosis & thrombosis recurrence.
1065989	Research interests include hair loss and its impact on quality of life, immunobiology of inflammatory hair loss conditions, impact of diet and nutrition on hair loss.  <br/>Clinical and administrative interests in medical student education, establishing uniform education and testing in dermatology among medical students. 
1066028	Clinical trials in early lung cancer diagnosis and minimally invasive surgical techniques for lung cancer treatment.
1066072	* Inflammatory response in cardiovascular injuries<br/> * Stem cell biology<br/> * Signal transduction
1066075	My research for the past 20 years has been in the areas of immune responsiveness and tolerance induction in clinical organ transplantation.  These studies have resulted in more than 200 publications including book chapters, review articles and editorials, original papers and presentations.  The major thrust of these has been on the immunological effects of donor bone marrow cell (DBMC) and donor hematopoetic stem cell (DHSC) infusions in organ transplant patients using in vitro and ex vivo culture systems. It has been observed that using multiple assays for donor specific unresponsiveness may identify potentially tolerant recipients who may be candidates for immunosuppressive drug (IS) withdrawal. Recent studies have also assessed the role of CD4+CD25High FoxP3+ regulatory T cells as potential tolerance inducers in kidney and liver transplant patients, as well as the differential susceptibility these cells to various immunosuppressive drugs used in clinical transplantation.
1066091	My clinical interests include neonatal stroke, congenital brain malformations, perinatal hypoxic <br/>ischemic injury and the neurological complications that arise from these insults.  My research focuses on mechanisms regulating glial progenitor cell response to perinatal injury.
1066173	Incoorporating prevention services to hospitalized patients
1066178	I am interested in clinical research that focuses on echocardiography and valvular heart disease, as well as prevention of coronary artery disease. I am currently developing a study to evaluate the effects of a comprehensive lifestyle behavioral program in women with the metabolic syndrome.
1066200	I am interested in developing educational tools used for the surgical education curriculum of medical students, residents and fellows. This includes, lecture design and content, as well as the use of simulators for assessment and training. I am also interested in protocol development and implementation in addition to patient outcomes research in the surgical ICU.
1066201	Clinical and research interests include thyroid cancer, thyroid nodules and other benign disorders of the thyroid gland, hyperparathyroidism, functional and nonfunctional adrenal tumors, inherited endocrine disorders, and minimally invasive methods of treatment including minimally invasive thyroidectomy and parathyroidectomy as well as laparoscopic adrenalectomy.
1066214	Dr. Devries specializes in preventive cardiology and noninvasive cardiac testing with echocardiography. <br/>Prevention interests focus on an integrative approach to treatment emphasizing nutrition and innovative uses of non-pharmacologic therapies-in addition to conventional treatment.
1066253	My laboratory's research focuses on understanding how dysregulated cell cycle controls promote tumorigenesis and alter normal, lineage-specific transcriptional programs in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells as well as in epithelial cells. We also study basic mechanisms of cyclin regulation. In my laboratory, we utilize primary and organotypic cell culture, mouse models, and live cell imaging. Discovery projects underway involve the use and study of small regulatory RNAs and synthetic lethality screens.
1066274	flourescence endoscopy (Imaging proteolytic activity in cancer)<br/>cancer vaccines<br/>immunetherapy
1066309	1. Echocardiographic diagnosis of Diastolic dysfunction.
2. Prognosis associated with asymptomatic diastolic dysfunction. Evaluation of the CARDIA study
3. Echocardiographic determinants of Heart transplant rejection
4.Right ventricular area normative data from CARDIA study
5. Prognostic value of Right ventricular area
6. Echocardiographic core lab for MARVEL study
1066351	Traumatic Brain injury
1066379	We are interested in the functional roles of chondroitin sulfates and chondroitin sulfotransferase genes in mammalian development and disease, including cancer. Specifically, we are currently investigating the roles of the sulfotransferase C4st-1  and its chondroitin sulfate products in breast cancer progression, mouse development, and in the control of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway.
1066385	I am interested in diabetes, thyroid, growth, and pubertal disorders. I am also interested in integrative diabetes therapies.
1066403	My primary clinical and research interests are in the early diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders in young children.
1066404	Leukemia, Lymphoma, new agents and survivorship in children
1066440	Clinical and genomic modifiers of cardiac conduction
1066440	I am interested in caring for and treating patients with acquired and inherited arrhythmias and understanding the underlying reasons for this susceptibility.  In addition, I treat patients with these arrhythmias either through ablation, or with devices, such as pacemakers and defibrillators.
1066455	Clinical educator in the Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Molecular Medicine
1066455	Dr. Hahr is interested in endocrinologic disorders.  She specializes in disorder of calcium and bone, including osteoporosis, hyperparathyroidism and vitamin D deficiency.  She also cares for patients with thyroid disorders and Polycystic Ovary Syndroma.
1066458	Regulatory mechanisms of inflammatory and apoptotic responses during pathogen infection and inflammatory disease
1066503	Clinical interest in surgical and non-surgical treatment of Female Pelvic Floor Disorders including pelvic organ prolapse, urinary and fecal incontinence, genitourinary and rectovaginal fistulas, complicated obstetrical lacerations.
1066654	I am interested in the process of communication that occurs between patients, families and providers in the acute care setting. In particular, my focus is on the impact of communication and information exchange on patient satisfaction, comprehension and outcomes following an ED visit. <br/>In addition, I am very interested in the intersection between emergency medicine and palliative care. I feel that education and training in EM must include an emphasis on quality of life and end of life issues which have traditionally be underrepresented.
1066664	Primary research interests are in the applications of minimally invasive surgery to spine.  Secondary research interest is in stem cell transplantation for spinal cord injury.
1066665	My laboratory explores the cell surface as a dynamic platform regulating cell behavior.  Specifically, we seek to understand how surface glycoproteins regulate cell-cell fusion in muscle cells, and to determine how pathogens target cardiac muscle.  Using surface modification, we then hope to re-engineer stem cells to improve tissue targeting and tissue integration.  To accomplish these broad aims, our current research projects are exploring the following research issues:  (1) Tissue tropism of Trypanosoma cruzi.  T. cruzi demonstrates tissue tropism during both the acute and chronic phases of infection, targeting cardiac, skeletal, and smooth muscle.  Patients with chronic T. cruzi infection may develop clinical symptoms related to target tissue infection, notably myositis, dilated cardiomyopathy, and megasyndromes.  The molecular basis for these clinical observations is incompletely understood.  My research hopes to define and characterize the cell surface proteins important during the initial host-parasite interaction enabling myogenic specificity.  (2) Drug discovery for African Trypanosomiasis. T. brucei behaves as an eukaryotic tumor in the host. We are exploring the use of traditional cytotoxic chemotherapy, as well as targeting bioactive lipid pathways, to discover potential inhibitors. (3) Cell-cell fusion and GPI-anchored proteins during skeletal myogenesis.  Secondary skeletal myogenesis, the process of differentiation of dividing, mononuclear myoblast into quiescent, multinucleate myotubes is critical for maintenance of skeletal muscle during aging and after injury.  GPI-anchored cell surface proteins appear to be critical for these regulated membrane-membrane fusion events.  Our research hopes to dissect the molecular choreography occurring at the site of opposing membranes which enables cell fusion.
1066766	My primary research interest focuses on the mechanisms of actin cytoskeletal remodeling.
1066898	All clinical supports in diagnostic radiological physics at Northwestern campus; Applied research in medical imaging, mainly in CT, X-ray, mammographic, ultrasound, MR and PET imaging, and radiation shielding/protection.
1066962	Tumor recurrence and metastasis represent the major causes of cancer related deaths. Studies aimed at understanding how cancer cells grow and spread can help identify novel anti-cancer targets. Dr. Strizzi's research involves the study of how the extracellular microenvironment is capable of regulating cancer related mechanisms including matrix remodeling, cellular invasion and angiogenesis known to play important roles during cancer spread. More recently his work has focused on the role of embryonic morphogens, Cripto-1 and Nodal during tumorigenesis. Both Cripto-1 and Nodal are involved in early development and have been shown to be re-expressed in human cancers like breast cancer and melanoma. Dr. Strizzi is currently studying how Cripto-1 and Nodal signaling can affect differentiation, migration and invasion of cancer cells and identify molecules and molecular pathways capable of regulating these Cripto-1/Nodal-dependent activities in cancer.
1067116	Dr. Evans has expertise in epidemiologic methods, health outcomes, and infectious disease related research. Her past and current research has focused on the secondary complications of persons with spinal cord injury and disorder (SCI&D) and women with HIV. Her major research interests include the epidemiology of infectious diseases (particulary healthcare associated infections) and outcomes as related to these infections, antimicrobial prescribing and its effects on patient outcomes, and uptake of influenza and pneumococcal pneumonia vaccinations.
1067182	Yersinia pestis and Yersinia pseudotuberculosis are two bacterial pathogens that are very closely related, yet cause vastly different diseases in the mammalian host. Y. pestis is infamous for causing the devastating disease plague, while Y. pseudotuberculosis infection often results in a mild, self-limiting gastrointestinal illness. While genetically similar, the distinct mechanisms by which these two bacterial species interact with the host is of great interest to our group.<br/>Shared amongst both pathogens is a protein called Hfq, which serves as a chaperone for small, non-coding regulatory RNAs (sRNAs). One set of projects in the lab centers on understanding the post-transcriptional regulatory networks controlled by Hfq and sRNAs in both Yersinia species, particularly as they relate to virulence. We anticipate that the similarities and differences we identify between Y. pestis and Y. pseudotuberculosis in this regard will provide keen insight into how a relatively mild pathogen evolved into one of the most deadly known to mankind.<br/>We are also interested in determining the mechanisms by which Y. pestis specifically causes primary pneumonic plague, a respiratory form of disease that Y. pseudotuberculosis does not produce. Another set of projects in the lab focuses on dissecting the mechanisms by which the Y. pestis virulence factor Pla controls the development of pneumonic plague. These include understanding the interaction of Y. pestis and Pla with the mammalian fibrinolytic and coagulation cascades, the identification of additional host substrates cleaved by Pla that lead to the development of a severe pneumonia, and the means by which Y. pestis regulates Pla expression in the lungs that result in these phenomena.
1067233	Acute liver failure predictors of recovery and need for liver transplantation
1067233	Principal Investigator NMH site<br/>Acute Liver Failure NIH sponsored grant. <br/>Principal Investigator NMH site study name:SANVAR . Completed July 2008<br/>sponsored by DEBIO  
1067235	Interested in diagnosis and treatment of ectopic pregnancy' gynecologic surgical techniques and preinvasive neoplasia if cervix, vagina and vulva
1067245	Debra E. Weese-Mayer, M.D. is a Professor of Pediatrics at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine and Director of the first Center for Autonomic Medicine in Pediatrics at Children?s Memorial Hospital in Chicago.  Dr. Weese-Mayer is recognized internationally for her expertise as a leader in clinical and research advances in respiratory and autonomic disorders of infancy, childhood, and adulthood (RADICA).  These include Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS), Congenital Central Hypoventilation Syndrome (CCHS), Rapid Onset Obesity with Hypothalamic Dysfunction, Hypoventilation, and Autonomic Dysregulation (ROHHAD), Rett Syndrome and Familial Dysautonomia.  She has authored more than 250 peer-reviewed articles, reviews, chapters, and abstracts.  Her clinical and research programs have grown to include a wide-ranging referral base from 48 of the United States and 48 foreign countries.  Dr. Weese-Mayer was awarded the March of Dimes Jonas Salk Health Leadership Award in Research for 2005. She also recently patented a genetic test to diagnose CCHS, allowing early confirmation of the disease, as well as prenatal testing (proceeds from the patent support CCHS research).
1067322	Research focuses on: 1) evaluating combination psychological and pharmacological treatments for tobacco dependence; 2) characterizing smoker- and treatment-related factors that influence smokers? adherence to treatment and likelihood of quitting; and 3) developing an understanding though human laboratory and genetic epidemiologic studies of psychological, biological, and genetic factors that convey risk for smoking persistence. Primary end-point is to decrease risk of tobacco attributable disease through long-term smoking cessation.
1067420	Renal and transplant pathology.
1067449	My research focuses on the immune function of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class Ib molecules in normal and diseased states. My lab is interested in understanding how MHC class Ib-restricted T cells are selected and regulated during development and how they contribute to the control of autoimmunity, anti-tumor immunity and infectious diseases.  My lab is also interested in identifying microbial antigens recognized by MHC class Ib-restricted T cells with the goal of developing new T cell-based vaccines for microbial infection.
1067515	My laboratory is interested in identifying new biomarkers for psychosis and dementia, using biomarkers to develop new treatment approaches for the disorders, and developing more informative animal models of neuropsychiatric disorders.
1067525	My laboratory has a longstanding interest in mast cell and eosinophil biology. We have developed specific and novel in vivo approaches for the analysis of mast cell function in experimental gastrointestinal inflammatory and allergic reactions. We can apply this model to determine the precise influence of mast cells and mast cell-derived cytokines/chemokines in gastrointestinal inflammation.
1067560	I am mainly involved in uncovering the mechanisms of endoplasmic reticulum stress in regulation of metabolic disorder and hepatocarcinogenesis based on the acyl-CoA oxidase 1 deficient (Acox1-/-), leptin and Acox1 double deficient (ob-/-Acox1-/-), and Promethin deficient (Prom-/-) mice.
1067632	Dr. Hagerty is a pediatric urologist.
1067808	Primary interest is health psychology/behavioral medicine with specific interest in psycho-oncology. 
1067860	Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum
1067861	Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum<br/>Interests include Cystic Fibrosis (CF) nutruton
1067862	Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum<br/>Interests include neonatal nutrition
1067863	Cancer of the Skin
1067914	Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum
1067917	Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum
1067927	My major research interests are on identification of molecular biomarkers that are associated with tumor growth and progression in benign and malignant uterine smooth muscle tumors. In addition, I am interested in<br/>characterization of the role of microRNAs in the pathogenesis of benign and malignant tumors in women's reproductive organs through regulation of the target gene expression.
1068004	Dynamics of lateral Border recycling compartment during leukocyte transmigration
1068072	Dr. Vaughan directs a multidisciplinary research group focused on investigating the role of the plasminogen activator system in cardiovascular disease. Active experimental programs are underway at the molecular and cellular level in animals and in humans. Transgenic and knockout mice are used in a variety of studies designed to explore the tissue-specific expression of PAI-1 in vivo and the role of the fibrinolytic system in vascular disease and tissue remodeling. 
1068072	My primary clincial interest is in adult cardiovascular disease.  My practice has focused on the management and treatment of patients with coronary artery disease.  I am also interested in the diagnosis and management of arterial thrombosis.  My research interests align with these clinical interests.  My primary investigative focus is and has been on the mammalian plasminogen activator system and the role this system plays in cardiovascular disease.  We apply a multidisciplinary approach in this effort, and utilize molecular and cellular approaches, as well as animal and human studies.   
1068073	Barrett's Esophagus; Biliary Tract Disease; ERCP; Endoscopic Mucosal Resection; Endoscopic Surgery; Endoscopic Ultrasound; Gastrointestinal Cancer; Pancreatitis; Radiofrequency Ablation
1068073	Dr. Komanduri is an Interventional Gastroenterologist. His interests include pancreaticobiliary disease, Barrett's esophagus, and gastrointestinal oncology. His expertise includes: Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography, ERCP, Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS), Endoscopic Mucosal Resection (EMR), and Radio Frequency Ablation for Barrett's Esophagus (RFA). Dr. Komanduri serves as an integral part of the comprehensive GI cancer team.
1068089	Dr. Keswani is an interventional gastroenterologist who focuses on minimally invasive procedures. Clinical interests include the use of endoscopic ultrasound in tumor diagnosis and staging, palliation of gastrointestinal malignancy, pancreaticobiliary endoscopy (ERCP), endoscopic mucosal resection for early gastrointestinal malignancy, and small bowel endoscopy including single balloon enteroscopy. Research interests focus on clinical outcomes of interventional endoscopic procedures including EUS, ERCP, and stent placement.
1068120	While I practice general Gastroenterology, my primary clinical and research interests focus on gastrointestinal pelvic floor disorders (e.g. constipation/fecal incontinence)and irritable bowel syndrome. I also specialize in treating gastrointestinal disorders associated with Scleroderma.
1068131	Dr. Smith's primary research interests are the neurobiology and treatment of social cognitive deficits in schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders.
1068135	Gamma Knife Radiosurgery, Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy, High Dose Rate Brachytherapy
1068180	Surgical Oncology. Liver/hepatic surgery. Pancreatic surgery. Biliary surgery. Pancreatic cancer, liver cancer, gastric cancer, gastrointestinal cancer.
1068247	I have a wide range of clinical interests including ADHD, mood, and anxiety disorders in children and adolescents.  In addition, I am particularly interested in psychiatric education and training. 
1068287	<B>CLINICAL:</B>  Dr. Mandelin provides general rheumatology care, and has an interest in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. His practice philosophy is: <I>'Patients do better if they can participate in their own care, and to do that they need to be given an understanding of their disease.'</I> <br/><P><br/><B>RESEARCH:</B>  Dr. Mandelin conducts basic science research into the disease mechanisms of rheumatoid arthritis, and he participates in clinical trials of new and existing medications for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis.<br/><P><br/>Dr. Mandelin also serves as the editor of Division's website and as the liason for our electronic medical records system.
1068287	My 'bench' research interests include the control of apoptosis in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) fibroblasts via a the mitochondrial pathway.<br/>My clinical research interests are in the field of medical informatics / electronic medical records / data mining.
1068431	I am a clinical instructor within the Division of Hospital Medicine. I work primarily on the heme-onc floors as an oncology hospitalist. I serve as the Director of Hospital Medicine for Oncology Services. Additionally, my clinical and non-clinical interests include women's health, global health, physician work force issues, and health and provider disparities.
1068433	My clinical practice is focused on inpatient care of oncology patients and attending on our palliative care services.  I'm working with my colleagues in palliative care to develop improved techniques for teaching medical students and residents how to effectively use opioids for pain control.
1068435	My primary clinical interests include sleep disorders in children and adults, insomnia in children and adolescents, and patients with control of breathing deficits.
1068449	I specialize in neuropsychiatry, the mental and behavioral disorders due to brain diseases such as epilepsy, movement disorders, dementias, or autoimmune diseases.
1068455	Dong?s lab research interesting focuses on the mechanisms of neurodegeneraton and related disorders. Two on going NIH funded projects are: using a combination of human and mouse genetics to identify novel genes and pathways that give rise to schizophrenia; also using a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer?s disease to investigate the relationship and mechanisms between stress and Alzheimer?s pathogenesis.
1068527	Neurovascular diseases; neurointerventional surgery; development of new devices
1068541	Interested in clinical research on polycystic kidney disease.
1068542	Dr. Uchida is experienced at caring for patients with complex medical illnesses. She practices evidence-based medicine which includes treating each patient as a unique individual. She also focuses on health promotion and the care of the whole person.
1068542	Toshi Uchida is a clinician-educator in the Division of General Internal Medicine.  Her clinical work in primary care focuses on promoting wellness and outpatient care of patients with complex medical illness.  Her educational work includes clinical skills education, assessment and dissemination.  She is a member of the Research and Education for Academic Achievement (REACH) Team which is developing a practice-based research network through the Northwestern University Clinical and Translational Science (NU-CATS) Institute.
1068543	Hematopathology
1068545	My primary focus is in maternal/child health including high risk obstetrics. My background in public health provides me opportunity to use my statistical knowledge in data analysis and review. I have published and presented papers relating to women's health, pediatrics and obstestrics.
1068571	<BR><BR><br/>Surgical Pathology
1068577	Our group focuses on developing complex biomarkers for neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease, using the tools of computational anatomy developed in conjunction with our collaborators.  To achieve this goal, we develop and implement precise measures of neuroanatomical structure and then relate these measures to cognition, brain activation and specific elements of clinical psychopathology.  One of our primary focuses is to describe changes in any of these measures that may occur during disease progression or treatment.
1068651	In efforts to understand how to prevent sexual transmission of HIV-1, our lab is studying how mucosal transmission occurs in both the male and female genital tracts. Using ex vivo tissue explant cultures, we are able to identify viral particles that have breached the protective layers of the squamous epithelium to reach potential underlying target cells. 
1068651	Sexual Transmission of HIV (female-to-male and male-to-female).
1068691	Dr. Sarah Kinsinger?s background and training is in health psychology and she has experience providing cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) interventions to a variety of medical populations, including cancer, obesity, acute rehabilitation, and gastroenterology.  Her research interests include the influence of partner support on adjustment to illness, sexual functioning following cancer treatment, and coping with chronic illness.  Dr. Kinsinger is also experienced in using CBT to treat depression and is approved by the Beck Institute of Cognitive Therapy and Research to provide CBT.
1068720	The overarching goal of our research is to improve upon current methods of bone healing.  In particular, we hope to develop more efficient and cost-effective methods of spine fusion that are associated with fewer adverse effects.  We utilize several different approaches to accomplish these goals.<br/>One research arm involves the use of mesenchymal stem cells isolated from human adipose tissue to elicit spine fusion in a point-of-care protocol.  In this research, we isolate mesenchymal stem cells from human liposuction aspirates and evaluate their capacity?in conjunction with both standard and novel, nanotechnology-based carriers?to elicit bone formation.  A second arm of our research utilizes a novel nanotechnology developed by our collaborator, Dr. Samuel Stupp, Director of the NU Institute for Bionanotechnology in Medicine (IBNAM).  Here, we employ a self-assembling, biodegradable nanogel composed of cylindrical nanofibers which contain an epitope directed at bone morphogenic protein-2 (BMP-2) in an attempt to facilitate spine fusion in our rat posterolateral spinal arthrodesis model.  <br/>Our research also focuses more broadly on mechanisms of bone healing.  In these studies, we investigate the molecular pathways by which normal bone healing occurs, as well as mechanisms by which these processes are disrupted, such as under osteoporotic conditions and after exposure to smoke and other environmental contaminants. Our goals are to elucidate these mechanisms of bone healing inhibition and develop novel methods to prevent such effects.
1068930	Cilia Polarity.<br/>The ability of ciliated epithelia to generate directed fluid flow is an important aspect of diverse developmental and physiological processes including proper respiratory function.  To achieve directed flow, ciliated cells must generate 100-200 cilia that are polarized along a common axis both within and between cells.  My lab is currently working towards understanding the molecular mechanisms for how cell polarity is coordinated as well as how individual cilia interpret the cells polarity.  <br/>Centriole Duplication.<br/>Centrioles are microtubule based structures with nine fold symmetry that are involved in both centrosome organization and aster formation during cell division.  During the normal cell cycle centrioles duplicate once, generating a mother / daughter pair, and in most post-mitotic vertebrate cells the mother centriole then goes on to form the basal body of a sensory cilium.  Abnormalities in the duplication of centrioles (and centrosomes) are prevalent in many cancers suggesting a link between centriole duplication and cancer progression.  My laboratory is addressing this fundamental question in cell biology from a novel direction with the use of Xenopus motile ciliated cells.  Ciliated cells are unique among vertebrate cells in that they naturally generate hundreds of centrioles therefore providing a great system for studying the regulation of centriole duplication.  Understanding how nature has overcome the typically tight regulation of centriole duplication will lend insight into the molecular mechanisms of cancer progression.
1068950	Global Health/International Health, Tropical Medicine, Bacterial Infections, Parasitic Infections, Viral Infections, Diabetic Foot Infections, Osteomyelitis, Sexually Transmitted Diseases,  Tuberculosis, Travel Medicine
1068982	Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery including orthognathic surgery, microneurosurgical reconstruction of trigeminal nerve injuries, temporomandibular joint surgery, distraction osteogenesis, alveolar cleft repair, neonatal distraction osteogenesis for airway management (e.g. Pierre-Robin sequence), endoscopic-assisted maxillofacial surgery, maxillofacial trauma, dental implants and reconstruction of alveolar ridge defects and sinus augmentation, and extraction of wisdom teeth.
1068983	To investigate the role of soluble epoxide hydrolase in the development of type 2 diabetes.<br/>To investigate the interaction between the plasminogen activation system and the arachidonic acid pathway in the context of fibrinolysis/thrombosis and this in normal and obese subjects.
1068995	I am primarily interested in treating benign and malignant diseases of the colon and rectum.  I have a particular interest in pelvic floor disorders and surgery for these problems.  I utilize laparoscopic and advanced endoscopic techniques in the treatment of the entire spectrum of colon and rectal problems, including cancer.  
1069004	My clinical interests are in the physical therapy management of adults with neurological conditions (particularly stroke, MS, and Parkinson's) and elders with imbalance and falls.  My research interests are in identification and treatment of imbalance and falls in elders and individuals with neurological conditions, and outcome measurement in neurological physical therapist practice.
1069041	My clinical interests include routine gynecologic care and pregnancy as well as contraceptive management and the evaluation/management of abnormal Pap smear. Current research interests include ultrasound findings to assess the risk of shoulder dystocia. In addition, I am actively involved in medical student education as the assistant director of the OB/GYN clerkship. I am one of two staff gynecologists for the HIV clinic.
1069043	My research is to understand molecular mechanisms that govern the biological functions of the intracellular signaling network in both physiological and pathological events.  We focus on regulation of JNK, which is member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) superfamily.  JNK is activated by a MAP kinase module through sequential protein phosphorylation in response to a variety of extracellular stimuli, including proto-oncogens, growth factors, inflammatory cytokines, and physical stresses.  Once activated, JNK phosphorylates its cytoplasmic target proteins such as members of the Bcl-2 family proteins, Itch, tau, IRS-1, or its nuclear target proteins such as the transcription factors c-Jun, ATF2, Elk-1, Stat3 and p53, thereby controlling proliferation, differentiation, programmed death and transformation.  Not surprisingly, JNK is involved in the process of many human diseases including lung diseases and lung cancer.   Through its involvement in regulation of airway smooth muscle cell proliferation, cell death, myofibroblasts proliferation, cytokine synthesis and transformation, JNK is likely to play a critical role in asthma, ischemia/reperfusion damage, pulmonary fibrosis, allergic inflammation in lung and NSCLC.  However, the challenge is how to selectively modulate JNK activity in vivo.  We have evidence that JNK functions as a protein complex, i.e., the JNK signalsome that is composed of both known JNK activators and novel stimulus-dependent modulators or regulators (SMOR).  SMORs are selectively recruited to or dissociated from the JNK signalsome in a stimulus-dependent manner, thereby specifying the activation of JNK by various extracellular stimuli.  It is possible that one can target a unique SMOR to selectively regulate JNK activation by a specific stimulus without affecting JNK activation by other stimuli or affecting activation of other singling pathways by that stimulus.  Our study on the JNK signalsome should shed light on our understanding of the molecular mechanism of pulmonary diseases including lung cancer and provide potential therapeutic targets.
1069054	I am investigating the impact of perioperative lidocaine infusion on the incidence of post-mastectomy pain syndrome.
1069068	Retinoblastoma, the most common pediatric cancer of the eye, is a devastating and sometimes fatal pediatric cancer. Within the United States, the majority of retinoblastoma patients are diagnosed before their 2nd birthday, and many lose their sight due to this disease. Outside of the United States, advanced retinoblastoma is an even greater clinical challenge in developing countries, where the mortality rate among children diagnosed with advanced metastatic retinoblastoma is as high as 70%.   <br/> Our laboratory mission is to understand the molecular mechanisms associated with retinoblastoma progression in order to facilitate the identification of novel therapeutic targets.  We are accomplishing our mission by studying both genetic and epigenetic changes that occur during retinoblastoma progression in human retinoblastoma tumors, and in retinoblastoma model systems.  Defining these changes is particularly valuable for the purposes of identifying novel targets for chemotherapeutic interventions.
1069069	Pediatric Orthopaedic Surgery
1069071	Clinical and research interests include sports concussion management, treatment of congenital clubfoot deformity, preparticipation evaluation for sports.
1069073	Dr. Gordon is Research Associate Professor in the Institute for Healthcare Studies and Department of Surgery, Division of Organ Transplantation at the Feinberg School of Medicine at NorthwesternUniversity. Dr. Gordon completed her doctorate in Medical Anthropology at Case Western ReserveUniversity. Thereafter, she completed a Fellowship in Clinical Medical Ethics at the University of Chicago. Dr. Gordon obtained her Master?s in Public Health from University of Illinois, Chicago, specializing in Community Health Sciences. Dr. Gordon?s research interests include: ethics of organ transplantation and donation, determinants of disparities in access to health care and health outcomes, health literacy, human subjects research ethics, self-care & chronic illness management, and qualitative research & mixed methods. Dr. Gordon received a Career Development Award from the NIDDK to examine self-care and outcomes among kidney transplant recipients. Dr. Gordon currently serves on the Ethics Committee of UNOS and has been actively involved in the American Society for Bioethics and Humanities.
1069105	Interventional Radiology
1069212	Stem cell dysfunction likely plays a central role in the pathogenesis of certain human diseases, particularly aging and cancer.  The use of simple eukaryotic model organisms in aging research has led to the identification and characterization of many genetic and environmental factors that modulate longevity.  The classic invertebrate model organisms, such as nematodes and fruit flies , however, are not ideal models for investigating the role of stem cells in human disease because of the relative absence of adult stem cells in these species.  <br/>My research program combines interests from my graduate research (stem cell biology) and postdoctoral work (basic biology of aging) using the freshwater planarian, Schmidtea mediterranea, as a model system. Our goal is to establish S. mediterranea as a model for the study of aging and age-related disease, with emphasis on the role of stem cells in longevity. S. mediterranea represents an excellent model for investigating mechanisms of longevity because of their apparent immortality and remarkable capacity to repair and regenerate tissues .  Regeneration in planarians is due to the presence of neoblasts, a pluripotent stem cell population in the adult.   To investigate the relationship between stem cells and longevity, we are using known longevity determinants to characterize age-related phenotypes in planaria, paying particular attention to regeneration and tissue homeostasis. We are also investigating telomere homeostasis and it's role in stem cell function in planaria.  Together, these efforts will establish S. mediterranea as a powerful model for the study of aging and age-related disease, and bring new understanding into the role of stem cells in longevity.
1069358	My main clinical interests/responsibilities are in perinatal pathology which includes placental pathology and perinatal autopsy pathology. My research interests are in correlating placental pathology with neonatal outcomes and investigating the causes of stillbirth.
1069409	Calvin R. Brown Jr., M.D. is Professor of Medicine in the Division  of Rheumatology of The Feinberg School of Medicine of Northwestern University.  He also serves as director of the rheumatology training program there. Dr. Brown is a member of a number of professional organizations, including the American College of Rheumatology, the American College of Physicians, and is past president of the Chicago Rheumatisim Society.  His research has been published in such journals as Arthritis and Rheumatisim and The Journal of Rheumatology.  He is author of several textbook chapters dealing with arthritis and allied conditions. His areas of focus include education in the rheumatic diseases, sports medicine, and disability evaluation. Dr. Brown received his medical degree from Wayne State University.  He completed his internship and residency at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.  He also completed fellowships in rheumatology at the University of Michigan and in sports medicine at Rush University Medical Center.
1069420	I am interested in understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms for cell-type specific degeneration in neurodegenerative diseases. I am mainly focused on corticospinal motor neurons that degenerate in ALS, and HSP.
1069448	My primary clinical and educational efforts have been devoted to promoting the subspecialty of Pediatric Emergency Medicine in the Community Hospital setting through the development of partnerships between community hospitals and academic Pediatric centers.
1069524	Palliative Care is a subspecialty that focuses on the relief or prevention of suffering -- physical, psychological, or spiritual -- in patients or families facing a life-threatening illness.  My interests lie in advanced symptom management and the role palliative care can play in an intergrated healthcare system.
1069530	Dr. Thompson has strong interests in the areas of quality improvement, patient satisfaction, medical documentation/coding, and telephone triage.  He has served as both chair and/or member of hospital-based and national quality assurance committees. He has developed databases and educational tools to promote benchmarking and quality improvement for emergency departments and medical call centers. Working in collaboration with nationally-known pediatrician Dr. Barton Schmitt, Dr. Thompson has authored a comprehensive set of telephone triage protocols for use in medical call centers and physician offices.
1069629	I am primarily interested in family and community medicine, with an interest in community assessment and clinical program development.  I have also done research in the area of physician stress and burnout.
1069689	My current research involves a variety of statistical issues arising in non-randomized observational studies, with particular emphasis on the causal inference of the effects of naturalistic lifestyles such as diet behaviors and physical activities on various cardiovascular diseases outcomes. One area of interest in statistical methods is combining parsimonious classification model of naturalistic behaviors and the lifetime outcome model of cardiovascular diseases. I am also interested in developing a methodological framework to infer causal links between gene expression, lifestyle behaviors and incidence of cardiovascular disease.
1069709	My primary research presently focuses on the examination of quality of life and safety in kidney and liver transplant recipients as part of the Transplant Outcome Collaborative. I have studied disparities in transplantation in general and in pediatric liver transplant recipients specifically as part of my MPH thesis.
1069730	My main interest is in spatial perception and control of movements in both healthy individuals and in stroke and traumatic brain injury survivors. Specially, I?m interested in perception and action in spatial neglect following stroke. I?m also interested in using virtual reality and robotics technologies for treatment and rehabilitation of individuals with cognitive and physical disabilities following brain injuries.
1069775	Dr. Siddique?s methodological research interests are in the area of incomplete and latent data. His recent work has focused on multiple imputation for missing data and latent variable modeling to correct for rater bias. His collaborative work is in the areas of behavioral medicine and health services research.
1069882	Most of the research that I have been involved with through Northwestern University has been in the arena of lower limb prosthetics; utilizing motion analysis to determine differences in component usage.  Currently I am working with the Nueral Engineering Center for Artificial Limbs at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago in the 'Revolutionizing Prosthetics' project which has been primarily focussed on creating new upper extremity prosthetics components and controls.  Similarly, we are also investigating the capabilities of controlling lower limb prostheses with the use of residual limb EMG.
1069886	One of the focuses of my laboratory is to elucidate inflammatory signals induced in mucosal innate and T cells by bacterial products (e.g., peptidoglycan, lipoteichoic acid, surface layer proteins) leading to intestinal colitis. Using gene targeting in probiotic bacteria we clearly show the mitigation of colitis progression. Additionally, to mobilize mucosal and systemic immunity against microbial challenge we further optimize various aspects of our mucosal multivalent-vaccine platform against a broad range of pathogens such as HIV, H1-N1, and Biodefense. This goal is achieved by directly targeting immunogens to small peptides derived from a phage display peptide library leading to efficiently capture by dendritic cells when expressed by probiotic bacteria at the mucosal side.
1070050	Dr. Rowell is a pediatric surgeon with expertise in minimally invasive surgery; congenital<br/>anomalies; anorectal malformations; prenatal counseling for fetal anomalies; hernias<br/>and undescended testes; tumors of the chest, abdomen and pelvis; thyroid disease; and<br/>ovarian and breast disease
1070120	My major research interest has been to identify the pathophysiology of clinical features of severe psychiatric illness. I have focused most of my career on linking the water imbalance that is found in about 25% of schizophrenic patients to structural and functional deficits in the central nervous system. Our current efforts are focused on establishing whether  neuroendocrine deficits, particularly oxytocin, are responsible for increased vulnerability to psychological stress and impaired emotion recognition and social functioning in this patient population, and may be reversible with neuropeptide therapy.
1070355	Our research program is aimed at understanding the genetic program that underlies the pathogenesis of Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), the most prevalent and malignant form of brain cancer. Applying a combination of cell/molecular biology, oncogenomic and mouse engineering approaches, we are dedicated to systematically characterize novel gliomagenic oncogenes and tumor suppressors. We will functionally delineate and validate these pathways towards pharmaceutical opportunities using sophisticated cell culture and animal models.
1070358	(1) Research how to better apply the EEG in the diagnosis and treatment of children with epilepsy.<br/>(2) Learn and develop better ways to provide comprehensive, compassionate, and technically superior care for children with epilepsy.
1070381	I currently specialize in genetic counseling regarding Neurofibromatosis and Jewish genetic disorders, including hereditary cancers.
1070382	Dr. Lee's research interests include statistical methods in epidemiology, longitudinal data analysis, and multilevel analysis. Her recent work on partial population attributable fraction has focused on estimating variance and computing confidence intervals to make inference on competing risk factors. She is currently interested in methodological issues relevant to the development and evaluation of risk prediction models for various study designs and data for model building, including cohort, nested case-control, case-control data combined with registry data, and kin-cohort data.
1070472	Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation, Electroconvulsive Therapy, Cancer Psychiatry, Psychosomatic Medicine.
1070473	Breast imaging and interventional procedures<br/>Breast disease
1070490	Dr. Hargrove?s research interests include signal processing, pattern recognition and myoelectric control of powered prostheses.  Dr. Hargrove focuses on research and development of clinically realizable myoelectric control systems in hopes that the systems can be made available to amputees in the near-term.
1070492	Dr. Saroli's clinical interests include echocardiography in congenital heart disease, both by transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography. She is the Associate Director of the Echocardiography Laboratory at Children's Memorial Hospital. She has additional training in Fetal Cardiology and performs and interprets fetal echocardiograms. In addition to her imaging committment, she runs a weekly general outpatient pediatric cardiology clinic, and provides attending service coverage in the pediatric Cardiac Intensive Care Unit. She is particularly interested in patients with single ventricle physiology and attends in the Transitional Clinic that allows transition of complex cardiac patients from the ICU to care by their own cardiologist.<br/>Her research interests currently include projects investigating the association between biochemical markers and post-Fontan cardiac index, as well as quality of life assessment in the pediatric cardiac population. She is also interested in research involving fetal cardiology patients and is involved in maintaining the fetal cardiac patient database.
1070520	Auditory and vestibular neural prostheses and therapeutics<br/>Auditory processing in the inferior colliculus and its significance in multisensory perception<br/>Optical stimulation of neurons and cardiomyocytes<br/>Biomechanical and biophysical underpinnings of vestibular disorders
1070746	Primary clinical interests include cardiac intensive care, single ventricle physiology, neurodevelopment and nutrition in children with congenital heart disease.
1070859	My primary clinical interest is grounded in primary care sports medicine.  My clinical interests include caring for endurance athletes, athletes who suffer from concussions, and athletes affected by the female athlete triad.  I also actively practice osteopathic manipulative techniques to aid in the recovery and rehabilitation of musculoskeletal injuries and dysfunction.
1070862	In Dr. Bohn?s laboratory, I  lead the research project focused on potential therapeutic effects of bone marrow-derived neuroprogenitor-like cells in a rat model of Parkinson?s disease (PD). In our experiments we use human and rat mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) genetically modified with the intracellular domain of the Notch1 (NICD) gene, a modification that up-regulates expression of certain neuroprogenitor phenotypic markers. We are studying the neuroprotective potential of these bone marrow-derived neuroprogenitor-like cells (MSC-NICD) in a rat model of PD. In addition, we are exploring the potential of MSC-NICD cells to deliver glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), a well known dopaminergic neurons trophic factor, to the lesioned rat striatum.
1071074	Dr. Kume?s research interests focus on cardiovascular development, cardiovascular stem/progenitor cells, and angiogenesis.  Current studies include the role of Foxc transcription factors in cardiovascular development and disease.
1071116	My primary research interests are in the fields of emergency medicine and health services research with a goal of improving healthcare quality and patient safety.  I have a background in operations research as well as health services research and have completed a Masters in Business Administration and a formal health services research fellowship.  My work uses innovative methodologies, such as in situ simulation and failure mode effects analysis, to assess and improve care delivery.  I also have experience with large database analysis.   I am particularly interested in improving the delivery of severe sepsis and septic shock resuscitation in the emergency department.
1071143	I am interested in medical education and quality improvement as it relates to the inpatient management of pediatric patients.
1071151	My research interests lie in elucidating the pathophysiological and clinical consequences of lung dysfunction in patients with diabetes.
1071327	Dr. Salsman is a Principal Investigator on an ACS-Illinois Division grant titled ?No Worries? Adaptation and Health Behaviors among Young Adult Survivors.? This project explores the positive effects and special needs of young adult cancer survivors during the transition from active treatment to survivorship. He is also a Co-Investigator on an NIH-funded contract titled ?The Toolbox of the Assessment of Neurological and Behavioral Function.' The goal of the Toolbox is to assemble a brief battery of measures for the assessment of cognitive, emotional, sensory, and motor health and function across the lifespan (ages 3-85) for use in longitudinal studies and clinical trials. Dr. Salsman  is the emotional health domain manager for Toolbox, liaising with senior project personnel and facilitating the instrument and item selection process for the emotional health subdomains of negative affect, positive affect, stress & self-efficacy, and social relationships. Dr. Salsman also serves as a Co-Investigator on an NIH-funded project developing a Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS), providing input on existing item banks for cancer patients and reviewing negative and positive ?Illness Impact? items. Other areas of research interest include positive-psychological functioning, religious and spiritual well-being, and patient-physician communication.
1071421	Methodologic research interests include issues related to data misclassifiction or mismeasurement especially in regards to anthropomorphic measures, and changes in those measures over time.  Current research also includes research in Gastroenterology, Dermatology, and Congestive Heart Failure.
1071429	Non-invasive evaluation of heart transplant rejection.
1071433	My primary research interest focuses on elucidating mechanisms by which genetic variations in the zinc transporter gene ZnT8 influences beta cell function.
1071516	I have a special clinical interest in juvenile dermatomyositis, but also enjoy seeing patients with all types of autoimmune conditions including systemic lupus erythematosus, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, vasculitis, scleroderma, and periodic fever syndromes.  <br/>My research interests in pediatric rheumatology reside in the field of medical education.  My goal is to improve medical student, resident, and fellow education about pediatric rheumatology.  I am presently undertaking a research project to define rheumatology educational goals and objectives for pediatric residents.  I am also surveying pediatric residency program directors about their current practices in rheumatology education and their perceived needs.  With this information, I plan to develop an educational curriculum designed to be taught within existing lecture time and rotations.   The curriculum may be taught by non-rheumatologist physicians in programs where no pediatric rheumatologist is available for teaching, approximately 40% of all pediatric training programs.
1071527	Research interests:
1.The long term effects of critical illness on children including any impact on functional ability, quality of life and neurocognition.
2. The causes and effects of delirium on patients in the pediatric intensive care unit.
1071552	Heart rhythm disorders mechanisms and therapy, atrial fibrillation, cardiac autonomic nervous system, cardiac sarcoidosis, complex arrhythmia, radiofrequency ablation
1071582	My broader research interest is in collaborative care.  I hope to better understand coordination among providers from various disciplines that converge on the care of a hospitalized patient.  Specifically, I am currently examining the role of internal medicine physicians in the care of medically complex surgical patients.
1071785	The human immune system must be kept in a state of constant balance to remain healthy.  Elevated immune responses are needed to fight harmful pathogens, yet those responses have to be kept from overreacting and attacking the body?s normal tissues.  A complex mix of immune cells is known to influence this balance.  My research interest is to understand the crosstalk among different cell types, especially focusing on two types of immune cells, Th17 cells and Treg cells, in the maintenance of immune homeostasis.  Our laboratory is studying the molecular mechanisms by which different transcription factors influence the differentiation of Th17 and Treg cells, and examine the Th17-Treg balance in immunity and autoimmune diseases using a combination of molecular, cellular and mouse genetic approaches.
1071795	Inflammatory bowel disease, Crohn's disease and Ulcerative colitis<br/>Women's Health issues in Gastroenterology
1071803	Dr. Hemmer's primary clinical and research interests include neurosurgical anesthesiology, intraoperative neuromonitoring, and perioperative patient safety.
1071859	Parkinson's disease results from the degeneration and frank loss of dopamine-releasing neurons in the substantia nigra. Interestingly, a nearby population of dopamine-releasing neurons in the ventral tegmental area remains unaffected by this degenerative process.  Recent studies have suggested that this degenerative process, and the onset of Parkinson's disease, are preceded by a similar process that takes place in other brain regions, wherein only a particular class of neurons is affected while others are spared.<br/>I am interested in understanding whether there is a common mechanism underlying the selective nature of these neurodegenerative processes. A hypothesis put forward by Dr. D. James Surmeier points to a common property shared by the various neurons that degenerate. They are all perpetually active neurons whose output is necessary for basic physiological functions carried out by such systems as the cardiovascular system or the gastrointestinal tract. According to this hypothesis the ongoing activity of these cells comes at a metabolic cost leading to their premature 'aging' and death.<br/>In particular I am studying the machinery that enables neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, that innervate the heart and the GI tract, to maintain their perpetual activity, and how this may cause them to be particularly vulnerable to neurodegeneration. <br/>My research combines neurophysiological techniques, live cell imaging, molecular biological tools and computational modeling.<br/>Additional interests:
1. the cellular basis for the role played by cholinergic interneurons of the striatum, in health where their activity comprises a neural correlate of classical conditioning, and in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease where their release of acetylcholine is upregulated.
2. The biophysics underlying collective dynamics of perpetually active neurons.
3. Design and development of electrodes for functional electrostimulation.
4. Deep brain stimulation.
1071912	My clnical and research interests overlap in the areas of hereditary cancer genetics and preimplantation/prenatal genetic diagnosis.
1071945	Collaboration with clinical investigators.
1072008	Dr. Roehrig is a clinical health psychologist with a specialization in obesity and disordered eating.  Her research aims to (1) examine behavioral risk factors associated with obesity (i.e., poor diet, inactivity, binge eating), (2) develop and test novel treatment approaches to produce sustained weight loss and health behavior change, and (3) understand the links between behavior and health outcomes.
1072048	My primary clinical interest is in the care of individuals infected with HIV and the complications of HIV infection, including oppurtunistic infections, cancers and metabolic disease.  I also specialize in the care of infections seen in recipients of solid organ and stem cell transplants and teh evaluation of persons prior to transplantation.  Other specific interests that I have are sexually transmitted infections and fungal infections.
1072101	I see patients in with General Pediatric Neurology concerns, including epilepsy, headaches, abnormal movements, muscle weakness, and neuropathies.
1072116	As a member of a work group, funded by the National Coalition for Health Professional Education in Genetics, Ms. Healy is an author of a web-based, interactive genetics curriculum for physician assistants. It is available at: http://pa.nchpeg.org/
1072174	Dr. Krichavsky is board certified in Interventional Cardiology, Endovascular Peripheral Interventions, Cardiovascular Disease, Nuclear Cardiology, and Internal Medicine.  His clinical interests include coronary, carotid, renal, upper extremity, and lower extremity angioplasty and stenting, vascular medicine, percutaneous valve therapy, closure of patent foramen ovale and atrial septal defects, percutaneous ventricular assist devices, catheter directed arterial and venous thrombolysis, and inferior vena cava filters.  In addition to performing procedures in the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory, he serves as an attending physician on the Coronary Care Unit (CCU), In-patient Cardiology, and Cardiology Consultation services at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.<br/>His research interests include investigation of novel devices and therapies, including stem cell, and cell-based therapies for cardiac and vascular disease.
1072275	Regional anesthesia, ultrasound guided procedures in anesthesia, acute postoperative pain, opioid free analgesia
1072546	My Clinical expertise and research primarily occurc in the Prosthetics-Orthotics field.  I am a Prosthetist and Orthotisr and I have spent the majority of my career in clinical practice. I have come to Northwestern to pursue a vairety of goals.
1072619	Dr. Siziopikou's subspecialty focus is on breast tumor markers and molecular diagnostics in breast cancer. Her research interests center around molecular markers of prognostic and predictive significance in breast cancer.
1072644	As the Medical Director of Cardiac Electrophysiology at Northwestern Memorial Hospital since November 2009, Dr. Knight remains clinically acitive with a broad range of clinical and research interests in the field of Heart Rhythm Disorders. These interests range from catheter ablation for complex arrhythmias, such as atrial fibrillation, to fundamental issues related to the basic mechanisms of various types of heart rhythm disorders, and the use of imaging in the electrophysiology laboratory to guide ablation procedures and device implantation. He is involved in several multicenter clinical trials that are evaluating novel ablation tools and implantable devices, including a totally subcutanous implantable defibrillator. He has coauthored over 200 scientific papers and is on the editorial board of several high-impact medical journals.
1072806	Emphysema (COPD), Esophageal Cancer, Minimally Invasive Thoracic Surgery, Thymoma, Lung Volume Reduction Surgery (LVRS), Chest Wall Tumors, Tracheal Surgery, Pleural Disease, Video-Assisted Thoracic Surgery, Mediastinal Tumors, Lung Cancer, Lung Transplantation
1072922	I am interested in understanding the initiation of childhood atopic disorders, such as food allergies, eczema and asthma.  Early life events play an important role in the maturation of the immune system.  I am interested in understanding the role of environmental factors and exposures that play a role in the development of allergic disease.
1072968	The goal of my research is to understand the molecular basis by which animals and their natural microbiota form specific, reproducible interactions. Microbial symbioses are prevalent in animal biology, and often, as in the case of humans, the animal host is born devoid of its natural symbionts and must acquire microbial partners from the environment. Pathogenic and beneficial bacteria share common mechanisms by which they colonize animal tissue. In spite of these parallels, relatively little work has been accorded to the beneficial associations, which are widespread, and critical to the lifecycles of both the bacterial and animal partners. I am studying the natural association between Vibrio fischeri and the Hawaiian bobtail squid to understand the processes that underlie host colonization in animal-associated bacteria. The system is particularly amenable to studying microbe-host interactions because V. fischeri is the only bacterial resident of the squid's light organ, and we seek to understand how V. fischeri specifically colonizes the host to the exclusion of other species. Each generation, the squid hatch without their microbial partners and must selectively recruit V. fischeri from the ocean. We use a combination of bacterial genetics and imaging to identify how the animal and bacteria communicate to reproducibly establish this productive relationship.
1073000	Interested in providing quality Pediatric Emergency care, to teach trainees, and to improve overall emergency care for children by contributing to research in this field with special interests in injury prevention, and Emergency Medical Services for Children (EMSC).
1073040	Dr. Cohn is an expert in HIV medicine, infectious disease, and HIV clinical trails and health services outcomes research.  She has been an active participant in the NIH/NIAID AIDS Clinical Trials Group since 1988, and has held numerous leadership positions including Vice Chair and Chair of the Women?s Health Committee and the Outcomes Committee, Vice-Chair of the Underrepresented Populations Committee 2008-2010 and is now the Chair of the Women?s Health Internetwork Scientific Committee (WHISC). She is chair and co-chair of major protocols pertaining to women's health, self-management and outcomes, recruitment of women and minorities into clinical trials, and optimizing ART, and is an active team member on many other protocols. Her current research areas have included optimizing the health of HIV-infected women, improving adherence to antiretrovirals, and improving access to health care and clinical trials for underrepresented populations. Dr. Cohn has maintained an active HIV clinical practice, has been a teacher of HIV medicine to medical students, residents, fellows, nurses and other care professors for over 20 years. She has mentored nurses, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, residents, and other faculty both in and out of her institution, helping to advance their careers in both research and clinical medicine.
1073157	Clinical evaluation methodology and clinical treatment trials of disorders of the motor unit are my primary areas of interest.  These include disorders of peripheral nerve, neuromuscular junction and muscle.  Characterization of autonomic nervous system in children and adolescents is an integral part of this effort. Characterization of the neuroimmunology of the peripheral and central nervous system provides direct and indirect treatment opportunities for many of these disorders.
1073480	Physician Assistant Education.
1073494	Dr. Rasmussen-Torvik is a genetic epidemiologist interested in genetic risk factors for common chronic diseases.   She is involved in GWAS  (Genome-Wide Association Studies)  designed to detect novel genetic risk factors for diabetes and obesity, as well as examining the association of SNPs and genes identified  in GWAS studies with response to clinical treatment.  Dr. Rasmussen-Torvik is also interested in developing methods to communicate information about testing for modest genetic risk factors to the public.
1074035	Pulmonary, Ophthalmic and Head & Neck Pathology
1074090	Rehabilitation Technologies and Quantitative Clinical Outcomes
1074103	Antimicrobilal pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. Antiretroviral therapy.
1074170	Dr Perez's research interest is in the area of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN). Specifically, Dr Perez's research focuses on the impact of hydrocortisone, a glucocorticoid commonly used in the NICU, on phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) and PPHN.
1074269	Pediatric Hospital Medicine - intensive care, observation unit, and sedation
1074283	As the Director for the African Health Program for Children's Memorial Hospital, Dr. Pitt has developed a medical simulation and a radiology curriculum that is being implemented by the pediatric residents at CMH at Bugando Medical Hospital in Tanzania. Dr. Pitt's interests in medical education focus on non-traditional didactics including game based learning and medical simulation.
1074284	I would like to work with underprivileged youth to increase violence prevention as well as alternative options.  I would like to work with youth in a multidisciplinary role with medical care vs counseling .
1074327	My clinical interests inculde adolescent primary care, adolescent gynecology, and risk prevention.  My research interests include understanding the epidemiology of adolescent risk behaviors.
1074404	Currently working at Children's Memorial Hospital in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.
1074456	Dr. Fleming?s research and training programs have focused on testing behavioral interventions in community-based primary care practices. He has also published dozens of studies on phospholipids, alcohol biomarkers, chronic pain, fetal alcohol spectrum disorder, pharmacotherapy trials, epidemiological studies and educational interventions. He has been the PI on over a dozen NIH grants and contracts. He is the director of the pain consult service and the inpatient addiction medicine consult service at the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics.  More recently he has taken a leadership in the UW Institute for Clinical and Translational Research as the director of research education and career development programs.  In 2005 he was elected as a member of the prestigious Institute of Medicine.
1074488	My research interests are in end-of-life decision making, cross-cultural issues, and provider-patient communication related to palliative care.
1074491	1. Drug Therapeutic Trials
2. Psychosocial coping and support in oncology patients
3. Early incorporation of palliative medicine in oncology care
4. Improving decision making for oncology patients
5. Improving monitoring and preventing chemotherapy toxicity
1074533	Daniel's research interests include assessing the cost-effectiveness of conservative interventions for the management of musculoskeletal conditions and the development and validation of patient-reported outcomes in the assessment of economic data.
1074548	Interested in clinical impact of abnormal cellular function in acquired or pre-existing neurologic disease, the effects in the ICU setting, and the interaction of the CNS with other organ system function/dysfunction.  Specific interest in acquired pediatric brain injury (Traumatic Brain Injury, Hypoxic Brain Injury) and investigation of new therapeutics - Hypothermia for Hypoxic-ischemic brain injury and traumatic brain injury.
1074557	My clinical and research interests focus on children and adults with congenital heart disease.  My specific areas of focus are pacemakers, defibrillators and other devices used in the evaluation and treatment of rhythm disorders as well as evaluation and catheter ablation of arrhythmias.
1074558	I am interested in general pediatric dermatology, infectious diseases of the skin as well as surgery and laser therapy of the skin.
1074590	Dr. Robinson's interests include medical education, inpatient care and non-invasive cardiac imaging, particularly the application of magnetic resonance imaging to congenital heart disease. His research goal is to expand the use of MRI in patients with congenital and acquired heart disease to decrease the need for invasive procedures. To facilitate these efforts, he completed a post-graduate clinical research fellowship in the Biological Sciences Division at the University of Chicago and clinical fellowships in pediatric cardiology and non-invasive cardiac imaging at Children?s Hospital Boston, the primary pediatric teaching affiliate of Harvard Medical School.
1074594	My primary clinical focus is treatment of type 1 and type 2 diabetes.  I see diabetic patients at our affiliate institution, La Rabida Children's Hospital, and at our off-site clinics in Hinsdale, New Lenox, and St. John Indiana.  I also enjoy educating families and healthcare providers about weight management and obesity prevention.
1074597	Current research projects focus on medical neglect.
1074664	General Therapeutic Radiological Physics; External Beam and Brachytherapy Physics; Gamma Knife Physics and Dosimetry
1074668	As a Clinical Health Psychologist, Dr. Coons? research is focused on understanding the biological, cognitive, behavioral, and social mechanisms of health behavior change (e.g., physical activity, diet choice, medication adherence) for both primary prevention (i.e., among individuals at risk for developing chronic diseases) and secondary prevention (i.e., among individuals with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease). He also has a strong interest in developing and testing the efficacy of technology-supported interventions for health behavior change and maintenance. Dr. Coons is the Project Coordinator for the Make Better Choices ? 2 (MBC2) clinical trial, awarded to Dr. Spring, which is funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
1074715	For ten years, I?ve been fortunate to engage in both clinical practice and musculoskeletal rehabilitation research, which<br/>has contributed to my pursuing a career as a clinical research scientist. My didactic training in Physical Therapy prepared me well for establishing myself as a resource for the creation, execution, and advancement of clinical research projects and ultimately, led to the completion of my PhD in Health and Rehabilitation Sciences in Physical Therapy at the University of Queensland (UQ), Australia. Results of my PhD unearthed exciting and clinically significant findings regarding degeneration (fatty infiltrates) of the<br/>cervical extensor muscles in patients with chronic pain following whiplash injury that required further investigation and extrapolation.  I was awarded a three-year fellowship at UQ, which provided me the opportunity to become involved in research activities that expanded the findings of my PhD. During this period, I initiated a large prospective study investigating the temporal development of fatty infiltrates with conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with acute whiplash. This culminated in new discoveries towards a more accurate classification of the whiplash condition. In particular, this work<br/>innovatively demonstrated that fatty infiltrates develop between 4-weeks and 3-months post whiplash injury but only in those patients with a more complex clinical presentation and not in those who either report mild pain and disability or who have recovered. The post-doctoral award demonstrated progress towards independence in clinical research and highlighted my capacity to contribute at a higher level, but still as a dependent investigator. Overall, my focus has been and continues to be exploring and developing measures to determine the clinical significance and prognostic value of spinal muscle<br/>degeneration in patients with traumatic whiplash injury.
1074965	Dr. Kaiser?s research focuses on health disparities, health communication, patient understandings of disease, and patient experiences with serious illness. Dr. Kaiser has extensive training and experience in mixed methods research and she utilizes a variety of quantitative and qualitative research methods in her work.  Currently, Dr. Kaiser is the principal investigator of the study, ?Communicating Breast Cancer Disparity to Minority Populations,? funded by the American Cancer Society, Illinois Division. This study examines minority women?s knowledge of breast cancer disparities and their sources of information about breast cancer in the Chicago area.
1075164	Benign and malignant diseases of the lungs, esophagus, pleura and chest wall.
1075230	Medical student and resident clinical teaching.
1075439	My primary research interests are sleep disorders in multiple sclerosis, the neurological complications of obstructive sleep apnea and sleep perception.
1075457	His current continues to focus on new ways to make health care computing more useful.  This includes developing intuitive, novel Human Computer Interfaces (HCI) for health care, including working the design of graphical icons for clinical applications, addressing data overload for clinicians and issues in affective computing.   A related line of research is developing methods for the integration of clinic research computing into clinical care.
1075699	Dr. Gillespie's clinical interest includes the treatment of thoracic malignancies, specifically with regard to the application of novel technologies in Interventional Pulmonology to improve the diagnosis and treat thoracic malignancies with minimal invasiveness.  He also has extensive experience in the bronchoscopic management of tracheal stenosis and the airway complications associated with Lung Transplantation. Dr Gillespie has advanced training in the following techniques: flexible and rigid bronchoscopy, balloon bronchoplasty, endobronchial stent placement (silicon, hybrid, and metallic), electrosurgery (including argon plasma coagulation, lasers, and cautery tools), endobronchial brachytherapy, photodynamic therapy, endobronchial ultrasound (both convex and radial imaging), navigational bronchoscopy, auto-fluorescence bronchoscopy (LIFE), multiple biopsy tools, percutaneous tracheotomy, and pleuroscopy.  <br/>His academic focus is on clinical research and education.  He was the principle investigator on a Phase III study looking at the placement of bilateral Intrabronchial Valves for the treatment of patients with heterogeneous emphysema.  Dr. Gillespie has also been involved in projects aimed to utilize advanced bronchoscopic techniques to improve diagnostic yield of lung nodules and masses, treat diseases such as tracheomalacia and severe asthma, as well as banking tissue samples for basic research.  As an educator, he has a keen interest in simulation based learning.  He has been working to develop simulations designed to accelerate the acquisition of advanced bronchoscopic and procedural skills.
1075967	Dr. McHugh is a health services researcher with an interest in quality improvement, patient flow and emergency department crowding, the safety net, and health policy/health reform. She has conducted a number of multi-method, multi-site evaluations and directed statistical analyses using data from large national data sets.  Currently Dr. McHugh is leading an evaluation of Urgent Matters, a program to improve patient flow and reduce crowding in emergency departments.
2008714	I enjoy caring for pediatric patients in the PICU, Medical Observation Unit and Procedural Sedation at Children's Memorial Hospital.
2027098	Dr. Denise Scholtens is interested in statistical problems arising from high-throughput genomics and proteomics data as they pertain to computational biology.   She is a member of the Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center Biostatistics Core and collaborates on a variety of basic science and clinical cancer studies.
2032191	I am primarily interested in research involving the optimization of care for children with special health care needs.
2033644	Dr. Watts' main research interest is in health outcome disparities in cystic fibrosis, focusing on the Latino cystic fibrosis population.  She currently runs a multi-center study investigating possible molecular and clinical causes for these health disparities.  Clinically, Dr. Watts is interested in cystic fibrosis, asthma, lung disease of prematurity and pediatric patients with complex pulmonary disease.
2036777	Utilization of 3D echocardiography in quantifying ventricular function in single ventricles.
2038320	My primary research and clinical interests relate to neurosurgical anesthesiology, intraoperative neuromonitoring, and perioperative patient safety. 
2039416	I am a UVEITIS specialist.  I treat ocular manifestations of systemic inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, sarcoidosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, Crohn's disease, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, etc.  I also treat infectious diseases of the eye such as herpetic keratitis and uveitis, herpes zoster ophthalmicus, toxoplasmosis retinochoroiditis, CMV retinitis and other HIV-associated eye diseases, acute retinal necrosis, etc.<br/>In addition, I also do CATARACT SURGERY and see GENERAL OPHTHALMOLOGY patients.  Finally, I am the ophthalmology residency program director.
2047557	Nanotechnology is the study of the fabrication, directed self-assembly, and characterization of materials that have size dimensions between 1 and 100 nanometers. In the context of biological nanostructures, this is the size regime of the molecular machinery that constitutes, for example, functional viruses, bacteria, and human cells. The challenge of bio-nanotechnology and the focus of The Thaxton Laboratory is to control the synthesis of structures that naturally interface with biological systems to develop exquisitely targeted, practical, safe, and effective nanoparticle therapeutics, imaging agents, and biosensors.
2049177	Primary interests include sports injuries in the young athlete, especially anterior cruciate ligament tears, and arthrocopic surgery
2059065	My clinical interests include all of plastic surgery, with an emphasis on cosmetic surgery, reconstructive surgery, and complex wound care.<br/>My research interests include wound healing and tissue engineering.
2077751	urgent care/emergency medicine pediatric care.
2098866	I am a clinical psychologist interested in the neuroscience of the early attachment system and it's impact of the developmental subjective and interactional nature of the 'self' system of the human being.  I have studied attachment, neuroscience and attachment trauma during the past 5 years through a variety of forums at the University of Minnesotta, the University of California Los Angeles, the University of Chicago, and elsewhere.  I am interested in the molecular nature of attachment, as well as the impact of attachment upon developing language, motor, affective, and immune systems of the body.  I have a clinical practice with adults, children and families in which I incorporate my clinical skills with emerging knowledge in the field of attachment and neuroscience to implement practical and highly effective clinical interventions.
2103930	Dr. Belknap is interested in the prevention of fatal adverse drug events. His research involves developing better methods for detecting adverse drug events and adverse drug event signals and also in developing better means of preventing adverse drug events or reducing their severity.
2103930	I am interested in computational medicine and specifically pharmacoalgorithmics, informally defined as 'the study of what the drug prescription does to the patient.' Drug therapy is more than just drugs, it includes the instructions for safely and effectively using the drugs and the resources to support those instructions (e.g., nurses, pharmacists, physicians, infusion pumps, and drug concentration measurements).  A prescription is a health-care program implemented by a physician or other qualified practitioner in the form of instructions that govern the plan of care for an individual patient. Working with a team of investigators, I showed that application of computer programming design and debugging methods results in a marked increase in the safety of opioid prescriptions in hospitalized adults. The methods we have developed in pharmacoalgorithmics have application to reducing the risk of adverse drug events, optimizing the efficacy of drug therapy, and reducing the cost of medical care.
2108444	Assessment of ultrasound and MRI in screening for and diagnosis of breast cancer, Evaluating response to chemotherapy, imaging protocols for follow-up of breast cancer patients treated conservatively, Imaging-guided percutaneous biopsy and ablative techni
2113364	ED management of wound foreign bodies.<br/>Teaching emergency orthopedics both clinically and with an interractive on line teaching tool.
2117014	Health communication, health disparities, message design, health promotion
2117014	Research activities are currently focused on addressing racial disparities in influenza prevention through the use of theoretically based multimedia messages.
2129733	Decision making and communication for cancer patients, those at increased risk for developing cancer, their families, and their healthcare providers.
2130945	I am Board Certified in General Psychiatry. I work with both adults and adolescents combining individual, family and couples therapy with pharmacotherapy. 
2132783	The overall theme of Dr. Gupta's research is the application of clinical pharmacology to the individualization of the care of high-risk surgical patients, especially those undergoing spine and intracranial procedures.  To achieve these goals, Dr. Gupta is interested in understanding how the physiologic states of special populations contribute to the variability of the concentration-effect relationship.  In particular, Dr. Gupta is interested in the contribution of sex (the ultimate pharmacogenomic factor) and age on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of opioids and how this may affect the safe delivery of adequate analgesia to opioids naive and opioids tolerant patients in the perioperative and palliative care arenas.<br/>Dr Gupta is also interested in pharmacologic strategies that attenuate the perioperative inflammatory response as a means of ameliorating the morbidity and improving outcome after surgery and anesthesia--postoperative cognitive dysfunction, neurologic injury, cancer metastases, pain, etc.
2139747	Physician Assistant utilization across clinical settings; Physician Assistant professional issues.
2146484	Neuroradiology
2146893	I am interested in Atopic Dermatitis and Eczema.  We have created a center called the Eczema Care and Education Center that is devoted to taking care of patients with eczema and their families, with an emphasis on education about the disease.  I am also very interested in connective tissue diseases such as lupus and dermatomyositis.  I am a medical acupuncturist and am interested in alternative medical approaches to dermatologic diseases.  Finally, I am interested in medical student and resident education.
2147664	Advanced minimally invasive surgery, Natural Orifice Translumenal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES), Single incision laparoscopic surgery (SILS, SPA, LESS), surgical education and simulation, skills curriculum, Obesity and weight loss (bariatric) surgery
2159034	I am interested in the applied physiology of responses to injury and inflammation in patient care, and the process of improving outcomes in trauma and intensive care.
2161500	Dr Gossett's research interests include pediatric cardiac transplantation and outcomes and cardiotmopathy/heart failure. This includes multi-center projects with the Pediatric Heart Transplant Study investigating rejection as well as the outcomes of cardiac transplantation in patients with Plastic Bronchitis. He is also involved in research related to pediatric interventional cathterization.
2163848	I specialize in diseases of the retina.  These include: macular degeneration, diabetic eye disease, and retinal vascular occlusions.  I have an interest in ocular imaging techniques.
2171089	Abdominal imaging.
2171325	Dr. Singh?s research interests are focused on the costs and quality of prevention and treatment of gynecologic malignancies.  Her research evaluates the costs of both high technology and low technology approaches to the prevention of cervical cancer in developing and developed countries. Her work addresses the need to tailor technology and screening techniques to specific settings and populations.  She continues to present nationally and internationally on HPV related disease and cervical cancer prevention.
2175090	Dr. Strauss focuses his clinical practice in radiation oncology for breast and gynecological malignancies.  He is an active clinical researcher and has published over 20 peer-reviewed articles.
2181798	General cardiology: valvular heart disease, bicuspid aortic valve<br/>Vascular medicine:peripheral arterial disease, aortic disease, carotid disease,genetic vascular diseases such as Marfan's syndrome<br/>Prevention and Lipid management<br/>Cardiovascular imaging: echocardiography and cardiac MRI
2190212	My primary clinical interests include the care of pediatric patients with asthma, chronic lung disease and sickle cell anemia associated lung disease.<br/>My research interests include pediatric asthma with a special interest in the early evaluation of lung function changes in pediatric asthma and sickle cell disease.
2190500	My primary research and clinical interests are in the areas of emotional functioning and attachment. Specifically, I am interested in the influence of early attachment relationships and perceived experiences on subsequent adult individual and couple functioning.
2206725	Prolactin and Breast Cancer<BR><BR><br/>The research focus in Dr. Clevenger?s lab is the characterization of prolactin (PRL) receptor signal transduction and function as it relates to breast cancer and mammary gland development. The PRL receptor (PRLr) is a member of the growth factor/cytokine receptor family, which includes the receptors for interleukin 2-7, GM-CSF, EPO, and GH. Within humans, PRL functions at the endocrine and autocrine/paracrine levels as a growth, differentiation, and motility factor within the breast, a hypothesis first postulated by our laboratory. Therefore, one of our major aims is the characterization of those mechanisms that regulate PRL/PRLr expression and action in both normal and neoplastic tissues. PRL action in human tissues is mediated by the PRLr. The molecular dissection of PRLr isoform structure/function is a research focus, utilizing both biochemical and biophysical approaches to examine PRL-PRLr binding and the interaction of the PRLr with its associated transduction pathways that include JAK/Stat, Nek3/Vav2/Rac, Fyn, SIRPa, NFAT, and c-myb. We have also recently identified a direct genomic action of PRL on gene expression. This action is mediated by the prolyl isomerase cyclophilin B (CypB), which retrotransports endocytosed ligand into the nucleus, where the PRL/CypB complex directly interacts with and activates the Stat5 transcription factor. Additional research by our lab on prolyl isomerases has found that cyclophilin A (CypA) is required for proximal PRLr transduction, functioning as the ?molecular switch? facilitating ligand-induced conformational change of the PRLr enabling Jak2 activation. As such our findings present vantage points in the development of novel therapies aimed at modulating PRL action during the differentiation of the human breast and the pathogenesis of malignancy in this tissue.
2237248	Doing consulting and developing data analysis algorithms in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology with applications in biomedical research.
2238574	Dr. Moller?s research background is in social and personality psychology. His area of specialization concerns understanding human motivation, health, and well-being. His research has often focused on differentiating intrinsic and extrinsic forms of motivation within a self-determination theory framework. He is especially interested in exploring how the provision of choice and financial incentives can either facilitate or undermine effective self-regulation.
2245338	My current research focuses on using structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as a tool to identify the anatomical consequences of neurodegenerative diseases and aging. Prior to choosing this specialty, I had over 7 years of experience focusing on the language-based dementia primary progressive aphasia (PPA) from several different perspectives, all aiming to further understand this relatively underserved disorder. Briefly, these include studies of putative risk factors for PPA (e.g., early history of learning disabilities); interactions between language and non-language cognitive systems (e.g., a comparison of implicit and explicit memory performance in patients with PPA); stereologic investigations of neuropathologic features (e.g., inspection of the distribution of Alzheimer?s disease (AD) pathology in postmortem cases of PPA); and clinico-anatomical correlations in PPA (e.g., focal atrophy patterns and clinical subtypes). These diverse research projects have helped to establish my skills as a well-rounded expert in PPA research. They have also provided me with a strong foundation in cognitive aging, dementia, and neurodegenerative disease, as well as a comprehensive understanding of the cognitive neuroscience of language and memory.  I have had the fortune to also learn about dementias first hand from the patients and caregivers who live with it by co-leading specialized support groups and educational sessions offered by our center. Since joining the faculty at the Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer?s disease Center (CNADC) at Northwestern University two and a half years ago, I have led the neuroimaging arm of our NIDCD funded PPA R01 project and have served as PI or Co-I on previous foundation- and NIH-funded awards. <br/>I also study individuals who are SuperAgers, active individuals over the age of 80 who have extraordinary memory for their age, to identify factors that contribute to successful aging.
2247422	Dr. Matic's research in therapeutic biomedical optics has involved lasers for skin incisions, low-level irradiation of periodontal bacteria and, most recently, optical stimulation of the cochlea.  She is a leading expert in the field of pulsed infrared neural stimulation (INS) and is currently studying INS in the auditory system to improve cochlear implants.  Currently, the function of cochlear implants is limited, in part, by the spread of electric current in the cochlea and, therefore, the restored hearing and speech perception to cochlear implant users is less than ideal.  Lasers can stimulate smaller populations of neurons than conventional electrical stimulation, likely improving the users' speech perception.  We are working towards a novel cochlear implant built on optical technology.  Dr. Matic is also interested in further therapeutic uses of biomedical optics in otolaryngology, and other intersections of optics and neurophysiology/neural engineering.  Dr. Matic received her B.E. in Biomedical Engineering from Vanderbilt University and her M.S. and Ph.D. in Biomedical Engineering from Northwestern University.
2273478	Dr. Sensinger's research interests include body-powered and robotic prosthesis design and control, with particular interest in developing-world applications. He focuses on clinically relevant, low cost/weight systems.
2354170	Chris serves as a dedicated prosthetic & orthotic educator with a strong interest in knowledge translation and stroke research.
2354896	Director, COPD Program;  Director, Alpha-1-Antitrypsin Deficiency Clinical Resource Center
2354896	Ravi Kalhan, MD, MS is Director of the Northwestern Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Program where comprehensive care is provided to patients with asthma and COPD at all stages of severity. Dr. Kalhan additionally serves as director of the Alpha-1-Antitrypsin Deficiency Clinical Resource Center at Northwestern.<br/>Dr. Kalhan attended college at Brown University in Providence, RI where he majored in modern American history. He subsequently entered medical school at Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine and completed his internal medicine residency at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. He then came to Chicago where he pursued his fellowship training in Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine at Northwestern Memorial Hospital, and has been on the Northwestern faculty since 2006.<br/>Dr. Kalhan's clinical interests are in the care of patients with both asthma and COPD as well as alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency. His research interests relate to respiratory epidemiology, in particular identification of early risk factors that impact the vulnerability of certain cigarette smokers to develop COPD. He is also involved in clinical trials of new therapies for both asthma and COPD.<br/>Dr. Kalhan additionally serves as Chairman of the Illinois COPD Coalition a multidisciplinary group including representatives from community-based organizations, public health departments, professional organizations, patients, caregivers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies and home healthcare providers which has the goal of implementing sustainable solutions for reducing the burden of COPD in Illinois.
2376710	I have been studying the health disparities faced by minorities in prostate cancer, including Hispanics and African Americans. We have been looking at the role of vitamin D deficiency and of allostatic stress load on men diagnosed with prostate cancer.
2389320	My research and clinical interests focus on improving long-term health outcomes in children with chronic kidney disease and after kidney transplantation.
2389410	I'm working toward establishing more focused care of patients with interstitial lung disease, in particular, Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis.  My research interests center on mechanisms of disease, prognostic factors and therapy in interstitial lung disease.
2391057	My research interests lie in the area of uterine leiomyomas (fibroids) primarily.  I conduct molecular studies on these tumors in an effort to understand how they are initiated and how they grow.  My clinical interests are infertility, fibroids, and patient education/communication.
2398380	Dr. Hamidovic conducts research in genetics of drug addiction. She has identified genes associated with behavioral, cognitive and subjective responses to acute amphetamine administration in humans. Her more recent work has contributed to identifying genomic loci associated with smoking persistence in African Americans.
2398475	I am interested in studying the contribution of the circadian system on asthma.
2436423	Anesthesia for Cardiac Procedures, Liver Transplantation, Cardiac Critical Care
2437731	My main research and clinical interests include long-acting reversible contraceptives, contraception in women with chronic medical problems, and preconception health care.
2470789	My clinical interests focus on cardiac intensive care, chiefly the post-operative care of neonates and children undergoing congenital heart surgery.<br/>My primary research interest involves HPA axis dysfunction post-surgery, during sepsis, ARDS and other conditions involving oxidative stress.
2476467	Special interests: Minimally invasive surgery, surgical critical care, outcomes research, pilonidal disease, surgery for cancer and developmental anomalies, neonatal surgery, resident education, international relief work
2484761	Special interests: Advanced minimally invasive surgery in neonates, infants, children and adolescents including congenital anomalies of the lung, esophagus, diaphragm and intestines; tumors of the chest and abdomen; pyloric stenosis; pectus deformities of the chest; inflammatory bowel disease; splenectomy for hematologic disease.
2564425	With the prevalence of obesity in children increasing at an alarming rate, I am studying early markers of infants at risk for developing obesity in childhood.  My current research is evaluating the impact of maternal obesity during pregnancy on risk of offspring obesity.  To test my hypothesis that obesity in non-diabetic pregnant women is associated with increased newborn body fat, I am measuring body fat in newborns using the innovative PEA POD system.  My pilot study will evaluate body composition in full term infants of obese and non-obese mothers using the standard skinfolds model (calipers) and the PEA POD system, a non-invasive mechanism to assess body composition.  I would like to verify PEA POD as a tool in quantifying newborn body fat so that it can be used to assess the impact of interventions aimed at obese pregnant women.  Additionally, I will measure metabolic markers during late pregnancy and in cord blood to investigate for others markers that may be predictive of childhood obesity.  Characterizing offspring of obese pregnant women may help determine the factors that predispose to childhood-onset obesity.
2575033	I am interested in the area of vitamin D and its many connections to human diseases and well being.  Taking advantage of an existing twin cohort aged 6-21 years (~2000 pairs) initially enrolled in 1998-2000 in Anqing, China, my project focuses on elucidating the longitudinal relationship of vitamin D status with known risk factors or biomarkers for metabolic syndrome (MS) in children and adolescents using a prospective co-twin design.  Relevant data from this cohort of pre-adolescent and adolescent subjects will be evaluated to test several hypotheses related to MS risk factors and biomarkers. I foresee that my research on vitamin D and human diseases will not only influence clinical and public health practice, but also contribute to policy discussions about diet and exercise in schools, the built environment, and vitamin D fortification in general populations.
