DESCRIPTION	EMPLOYEE_ID
Clinical:  Analytical flow cytometry<br><br>

Research:  Investigation of the basic cell biology of B chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the major research interest of the laboratory. B-CLL is characterized by malignant cells having an anti-apoptotic phenotype and the accumulation of malignant cells is thought to be primarily driven by a block in apoptosis. However, when B-CLL cells are placed in in vitro culture, rapid apoptosis occurs raising the question of whether there are inherent defects in the apoptotic regulatory machinery or whether the dysregualtion seen is due to paracrine and/or autocrine factors. We are currently investigating potential paracrine/autocrine loops regulating apoptosis in the malignant B cell population. Specifically, the potential role of altered cytokine production by tumor specific oligoclonal T cells in these patients and its relationship to apoptosis control in the malignant B cells is being studied. 

   Although proliferation centers are seen in B-CLL, an additional abnormality is dysregulation of proliferation control in the malignant B cells with few proliferating cells seen in vivo and a lack of proliferative response to a number of normal B cell mitogens. In fact, although non-proliferative, the B cells in B-CLL patients may not be blocked in G0 but rather at a later point in the cell cycle. The other major area of investigation in the laboratory is elucidation of the mechanisms of proliferation dysregulation in these patients.

    Lastly, the laboratory is also involved in development of a number of complex multiparametric flow cytometry based clinical analyses both for diagnostic purposes (development of solid tumor "immunophenotyping" panels) and for patient specific therapeutic decision/monitoring purposes including assessment of signal transduction pathways in the setting of kinase inhibtor therapies.	1000176
Autopsy pathology, Cardiac pathology
<BR><BR>

Lipids are important regulators of the activity of many proteins including those involved in cardiac, vascular, pulmonary, and neural regulation, yet little is known about the molecular mechanisms mediating these effects. My laboratory staff members are engaged in a program of basic research to elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which lipids act as specific ligands to regulate cellular responses, and to investigate in select areas of cardiovascular disease how aberrations of signaling pathways may play a vital role in the pathogenesis of human disease.

We have used the family of phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C isoforms as a model to study protein-lipid interactions. Upon stimulation by various hormones these membrane associated enzymes hydrolyze polyphosphoinositides to yield second messengers such diacylglycerol and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate. The determinants of enzyme function are complex and can be broken down into several primary components: substrate binding and catalysis, enzyme translocation, and regulation. During the past several years we have identified the structural motifs in the PLC delta 1 isoform that mediate each of the three primary functions. All three motifs require the binding of a specific lipid for function. The structural motif mediating translocation also modulates the rate catalysis, and is encoded by a unique domain termed the pleckstrin homology or PH domain. This newly discovered protein module of 100 amino acids exists in many molecules (including PLC d1) that participate in signal transduction. Our research is among the first to demonstrate a clear function in signal transduction for the PH domain, and serves a paradigm for the activation and regulation of many signaling molecules.	1000184
MRI, functional MRI, neuroimaging, perfusion, diffusion, cerebrovascular disease,caffeine


	1000332
Messenger RNA stability, regulation of gene expression by protein kinase; signal transduction
	1000359
neural networks, functional imaging, dementia, cerebral cortex, cholinergic pathways	1000436
Cell  motility, cell  division, cytoskeleton, boilogical forces, imaging


	1000444
Alzheimer's disease, Memory disorders, Neuropsychology, Early Onset Dementia, Primary Progressive Aphasia, Frontotemporal Dementia, Superaging.
The ability to use language can be progressively disrupted by neurodegenerative diseases of the brain that target circumscribed regions that normally mediate language in healthy individuals.  My clinical and research interests focus on Individuals with Primary Progressive Aphasia, Frontotemporal Dementia and Alzheimer's Disease.  Research projects address the neuropsychological, neuroimaging and neuropathological variables associated with these syndromes, in order to contribute to our understanding of risk and the genetic factors that determine regional brain vulnerability to these diseases and to identify biomarkers that can be used in diagnosis during the patient's lifetime.  To date, there are no biomarkers that definitively predict the type of the neuropathology in these clinical syndromes in the individual patient.  Additional interests in the area of brain aging and its effects on cognition lie in determining factors associated with "Superaging", the maintenance of a high level of cognitive ability into the 9th decade of life and beyond.

	1000475
Acute medical problems in primary care, Palliative care	1000531
Gynecological malignancies, Gynecology early detection, Ovarian Cancer Early Detection	1000554
Primary research focused on clinical outcome measures in SMA and surrogate outcomes for clinical trials	1000654
<p><b>Clinical Interests:</b>  Brain aneurysm, cerebral arteriovenous malformation, dural fistulas, cavernous malformations, hemifacial spasm, trigeminal neuralgia, Chiari I malformation</p>

<p><b>Research Interests:</b>  High resolution imaging for hyperactive cranial nerve syndromes (trigeminal neuralgia and hemifacial spasm), volume staged radiosurgery for complex arteriovenous malformations</p>	1000732
neural engineering, motor learning, multi-joint movements, robotics, adaptation, control, plasticity, computation, neural networks


	1000734
Role of sonic hedgehog and Bmp4 in prostate development





	1000810
Comprehensive care of adults, Perioperative medical consultations, Preventive medicine	1000851
Emerging Infectious Diseases, HIV / AIDS Research	1000867
My research focuses on the evolutionary mechanisms underlying host-pathogen interactions, and their role in the emergence, spread, and containment of infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS. The work seeks to understand how viral genetic variation, driven by host genetics and immunity, affects HIV infection dynamics and epidemic behavior. This connection is central to the evolution of virulence and drug resistance, and to vaccine design.	1000867
Coagulation	1000886
Angioplasty, Atherectomy, Brachytherapy, Cardiac catheterization, Intravascular ultrasound, Stents, Valvuloplasty	1000906
physician-patient communication and decision making
	1000927
Hematopathology	1001011
My research deals primarily with the characterization of morphological and chemical phenotypes of specific classes of neural cells, and how they develop and change under experimental conditions and disease processes.	1001018
Health services for college / graduate students, Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Perioperative medical consultations	1001027
My primary interest is in public health education of health care professionals.  My secondary interest is ethical conduct of human subjects research particularly in the area of medical research.	1001035
Occupational lung disease	1001070
Depression, Eating Disorders	1001109
Gynecologic surgery, Gynecology	1001131
My primary research is in the area of health economics, applied to the specific areas of aging and disability, markets for hospital and rehabilitation care, cost effectiveness of medical procedures, and arthritis care. Much of my work has used large existing data sets, including Medicare claims data, to examine healthcare market performance in response to policy changes.  
	1001200
Coronary critical care, Echocardiography, General and preoperative consultative cardiology	1001204
My primary research interests include developmental psychopathology, sensory processing disorders, therapeutic interventions and outcomes for children and adolescents, and family therapy.

	1001220
Research interests include medical student mental health, personality traits, and the limits of evidence-based psychotherapy.  Clinical interests include career consultation and individual psychotherapy.	1001222
Inflammatory and infectious diseases the the retina, hereditary diseases of the retina,macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy
	1001264
The  generation and mechanism of activity of Angiostatin.
	1001320
Acute medical problems in primary care	1001348
Pediatric Emergency Medicine
Emergency Medical Services for Children	1001386
My primary research and clinical interest centers around image guided therapy.  Specifically, its application to the treatment of uterine fibroids through minimally invasive techniques via uterine artery embolization.	1001402
Additional interests include diagnosis and treatment of lysosomal storage disorders, skeletal dysplasias, and inborn errors of metabolism.
	1001431
Head and neck radiology, Interventional neuroradiology, Neuroradiology, Spine imaging / intervention, Vascular imaging
	1001443
electrocardiography, QT interval, heart rate, cardiology clinical trials	1001472
Hypertension, Obesity, Pheochromocytoma
	1001554
cardiac cellular electrophysiology, ion channels, pharmacology, digitalis, excitation-contraction coupling, heart failure
	1001574
Valvular and Coronary heart disease. Cardiac Imaging.
	1001581
adenosine, synaptic transmission, neurotransmitter release, 
secretion, ion channels, neuromuscular junction, 
	1001613
General surgical pathology, Gynecological pathology	1001662
Foot & ankle problems, General Orthopaedics, Limb lengthening & deformities, Osteomyelitis, Treatment of complex fractures	1001676
Research interests include health services research, evidence-based medicine, and outcomes analysis, and clinical studies of new therapies	1001679
Colon cancer, Gastric cancer, Pancreas cancer, Rectal cancer	1001725
General cardiology, Preventive cardiology, Stress testing, Nuclear cardiology, Cardiac MRI


	1001728
Research interests include testing of new pharmacologic stress agents, myocardial perfusion imaging (nuclear), and assessment of myocardial perfusion and viability by MRI.
	1001728
Alzheimer's and Frontal dementias, Other dementias, Aphasia, Learning disabilities and ADD/ADHD, Functional Brain Imaging, Disorders of higher cortical function (amnesia, agnosia, neglect, etc.) due to stroke, epilepsy, dementia, etc.
	1001774
Kidney transplantation, nephrotic syndrome, pediatric kidney diseases	1001785
I am interested in strptococcal pharyngitis, injury prevention, and medical education.	1001786
How memory is stored in the brain: molecular and cellular bases
	1001883
Autoimmunity & Tolerance to Nucleosomes, Apoptosis, Peptide Epitope Therapy, Signaling Threshold, Lupus.



	1001887
We have established that in systemic lupus (SLE), the immune system responds abnormally to nucleosomes, the major products of body's own cells undergoing apoptosis (J. Exp. Med. 177:1367, 1993). Our main research programs involve studies on the origins of autoimmune response to nucleosomes, and signaling defects in autoimmune T and B cells that lead to abnormal co-stimulation and apoptosis-resistance. Work is progressing in parallel in lupus patients and mouse models of lupus we developed (Nature 263:412, 1976). 

We have identified nucleosomal peptide epitopes critical for cognate interactions between the autoimmune T helper (Th) cells and anti-DNA B cells in murine and human lupus (J. Exp. Med. 183:2459, 1996). Recognition of these autoepitopes by lupus T cell receptors (TCR) is highly promiscuous which makes the peptides extremely potent for therapy of established lupus autoimmunity by a mechanism we call "tolerance spreading". We have also developed transgenic mice, bearing nucleosome-specific TCR genes, to determine how the autoimmune T cells escape censorship in the thymus despite exposure to apoptosis products, and how they could be regulated in the periphery. 

Moreover, we found that the Th and B cells of lupus have defects that lower their threshold for costimulatory signaling and make them resistant to anergy induction. These defects lead to sustained production of pathogenic autoantibodies. We are studying new pathways for resistance to anergy and activation induced death in autoimmune T cells of lupus, as revealed by differential gene expression profiling.
	1001887
I am interesting in medical education in the field of radiology at multiple levels, as well as overall health care policy and quality. Radiation exposure for medical imaging is becoming a big quality and safety issue. Within the field of radiology I am most interesed in ultrasound. 
	1001926
childhood obesity prevention and management; community health surveillance and promotion; pedestrian injuries

	1001944
We are primarily conducting translational research, some of which is in conjunction with a colleague in anthropology, Dr. Gillian Bentley.  We have studied hormone differences between populations of women in the developing countries of Bolivia and Bangladesh and the Western countries, US and UK.  Salivary progesterone concentrations are significantly lower in women of developing countries, and migrant studies show that the age of the migrants is critical in the adaptation of the Western hormone patterns.  Adult migrants do not adapt to the higher progesterone levels.  Salivary estradiol is not significantly different between these population groups.  We are interested in the relation of hormone levels to fertility and to breast cancer incidence.  Other studies involve Dr. Seema Khan, Department of Surgery.  We are studying hormone and products of hormone action in nipple aspirate fluid and breast random fine-needle aspirates from women with different levels of breast cancer risk to ascertain the associations of hormones with the potential for breast cancer development.  The very small samples obtained make the procedure more acceptable than other biopsy procedures but the amount of biomarkers in the samples are limiting.  For this purpose we are working with Dr. Chad Mirkin and others in the Nanotechnology Program to develop assays with several-fold greater sensitivities than the current immunoassays.  We are also funded to study the potential for transdermal application of the biologically active metabolite of tamoxifen to the breast as an alternative to oral administration of tamoxifen.  We are working with Dr. Dean Ho of the Bioengineering Faculty to develop more efficient delivery systems for this application.  Potentially, this will eliminate some of the undesirable side-effects of tamoxifen that cause a majority of women to reject the prophylactic use of tamoxifen.  
	1001981
General cardiology, Heart failure, Ischemic heart disease, Prevention of heart disease	1002038
Mihai Gheorghiade, MD, FACC, FCCP, FACP

Dr. Gheorghiade is currently Professor of Medicine and Surgery, Associate Chief of the Division of Cardiology, Chief of the Cardiology Clinical Service, and Director of the Telemetry Unit at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.  He obtained his MD, Magna Cum Laude, from the University of Rome in 1972 and did his training in internal medicine and cardiology at Brown University.  Subsequently, he moved to Virginia, where he became Chief of Cardiology at the Salem VA and Associate Professor of Medicine at the University of Virginia.  Then, he became Chief of the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit at the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, Michigan and Associate Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University of Michigan.  From there, he moved to his current position in Chicago.  Dr. Gheorghiade was a visiting professor at the major universities in the United States and abroad and received numerous awards for teaching from both medical students and residents.  He is a member of many national and international committees and serves on the editorial board of many journals including the American Heart Journal, The American Journal of Cardiology, and the Journal of the American College of Cardiology.  Dr. Gheorghiade served as a guest editor on numerous occasions for the American Journal of Cardiology, American Heart Journal, and American Journal of Medicine.  He was/is Chairman of the Steering Committee for many heart failure trials including OPTIME, ACTIV, IMPACT, PRESERVD, STEP-CHF, URGENT, and HORIZON.  He is co chairing the ongoing, international EVEREST trial and was a member of the Steering Committee of RADIANCE, FIRST, CARS, RITZ 4, EPHESUS,  OPTIMIZE-HF, and IMPROVE-HF Dr. Gheorghiade is the author of more than 300 publications.  He was the Chairman/Co-chairman of numerous international and national meetings.  At present, his research interests are related to the pathophysiology, prognosis, and management of hospitalized patients with heart failure and the roles of vasopressin antagonist in heart failure.  
	1002038
Neuropathology	1002042
PACS, Workstation, RIS, DICOM, HL7, Data Mining, 

	1002052
Hodgkin's disease, Leukemia, Lymphoma, Transplantation	1002062
I have been studying biologic correlates of outcome measures in the context of the US Intergroup CHOP vs. Rituximab(R)-CHOP clinical trial for diffuse, large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The addition of R to conventional CHOP chemotherapy either as induction or maintenance has now been shown to improve outcome in patients with DLBCL (both US and European trials).  My findings suggest this improvement in outcome is primarily due to the beneficial effect of R added to CHOP in the bcl-6 negative subset of DLBCL. Furthermore, addition of rituximab to CHOP chemotherapy, does NOT benefit patients who are bcl-6+, the majority of cases.  Differences between the clinical behavior of bcl-6 positive and negative lymphoma provide clues to the underlying biologic nature of DLBCL. Different therapeutic strategies may be designed to specifically target bcl-6-positive and negative DLBCL based upon differences in their underlying cell survival mechanisms and sensitivity to chemotherapy and rituximab. Analysis of additional biologic markers (p53, p21) is in progress.  Along with Dr. John Reed of the Burnham Institute, a long-standing collaborator, we are investigating protein expression of paracaspase in  lymphomas.In collaboration with Dr. E. Terry Papoutsakis of the Department of Chemical Engineering, NU, we are creating  gene expression arrays on follicular lymphomas to identify patterns of gene expression reflective of the nonmalignant cells component of the biopsy specimen, and their relationship to clinical outcome.

Radioimmunotherapy using anti-CD20 reagents targets radiation to the malignant lymphocytes and their immediate neighbors by means of the cross-fire effect.  To improve outcomes, we have added Y-90-ibritumomab tiuxetan to conventional BEAM chemotherapy for patients undergoing autologous stem cell transplant.  This was an investigator initiated phase I trial conducted under an investigator-held IND.  Colleagues at the Mayo Clinic were our co-investigators.  Forty-three patients were accrued to this study;  the maximal tolerated dose of Y-90-Ibritumomab tiuxetan is one that will deliver 1500 cGy to critical organs.  We are recommending a phase II trial of this radioimmunotherapeutic at 1.0 mCi/kg administering higher doses of Y-90-ibritumomab  tiuxetan be conducted prior to proceeding to a phase III randomized trial.

Continuing in our efforts to develop novel therapies for patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, I have written a phase I trial to combine bortezomib, the proteosome inhibitor, with Y-90-ibritumomab tiuxetan for patients with follicular lymphoma. This study has just opened.
 
Other clinical investigations include anti-idiotype vaccines, novel targeted agents such as histone deacetylase inhibitors and new monoclonal reagents such as the  anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody and an anti-CD22 chemoimmunoconjugate. In the context of our recently submitted SPORE in Lymphoma application, I will lead studies of targeted "nanobins" created by Dr. O'Halloran, and help to develop bcl-6 peptide inhibitors for clinical use with Drs. Licht and Melnick (Albert Einstein).  

	1002062
Dr Kahrilas' research focus is on esophageal and oropharyngeal physiology and pathophysiology.  Oropharyngeal studies are aimed at describing the normal mechanics of swallowing and the modifiability that can be imposed therapeutically.  These studies use computerized analysis of manometric and videofluorographic swallowing studies.  Pathophysiologic studies of the oropharynx focus on mechanisms that result in dysphagia and the efficacy of volitional compensatory strategies in modifying these defects.  Esophageal research has centered on the motor activity of the upper esophageal sphincter, peristaltic function, the pathophysiology of esophageal motor disorders, and the pathophysiology of gastroesophageal reflux disease.  Upper esophageal sphincter investigations utilized manometry and videofluoroscopy to describe reflexive response to esophageal stimuli, as well as normal activity during sleep, acid reflux, meals, and swallowing.  Studies of the esophageal body have described the contractile pattern of longitudinal muscle during peristalsis and are examining the efficacy of peristaltic function in effecting volume clearance and relating this quantitative assessment of peristaltic efficacy to the subjective experience of dysphagia.  Investigations of reflux disease are examining the mechanisms by which anatomic variables, inclusive of but not limited to hiatus hernia, interact with physiological responses to modulate disease severity.  A current research focus is on applying high-resolution solid-state manometry to the analysis of esophagogastric junction pathophysiology both with respect to reflux disease and esophageal motor disorders. 

Previous research interests have included central nervous system neurophysiology, autonomic nervous system neurophysiology as it relates to sodium homeostasis, and screening for esophageal cancer. 	1002064
Esophageal disorders, Gastroesophageal reflux disease, Swallowing disorders	1002064
competitive, inhibition, uterine, contractions, preterm- labor, peptidic, oxytocin, antagonists, breakdown, metabolism	1002079
Adolescent Psychiatry, Normality, Longitudinal Studies	1002095
My research interests include HIV prevention for high risk populations, health promotion with underserved populations and clinical research of co-ocurring mental health and substance abuse in incarcerated individuals.
	1002126
Asthma, Clinical Trials, Medical Ethics

	1002139
I am exploring the role of diet in asthma severity, especially the effect of dietary antioxidants and soy isoflavones.	1002139
global control of cell function
genome sequence architecture and genome navigation	1002194
My primary research/clinical interest of longest standing is in the area of medical anthropology; specifically, dealing with all of those factors, processes, and practices--biological and cultural--that are associated with either promoting or impeding healing in all of its aspects (i.e., from somatic wound healing to psychic healing).  Regarding healing, I have particular interest in mind-body integration and psychoneuroimmunology.  In the area of my own professional clinical activity, my longest standing interest is in bringing existentially informed approaches to the practice of making effective healing relationships with individuals and their families who are contending with serious medical problems and/or life-shattering events which have a medical dimension. 


	1002205
Primary clinical interest is in administration of correctional psychiatry programs in the Cook County Jail and the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center.	1002238
My primary clinical interest is Women's Health with a special focus on Menopause and Bone Densitomety and cardiovascular health. I am also very interested in minimally invasive surgery.
	1002248
I am a clinical psychologist who is primarily interested in providing psychotherapy to individuals and couples coping with mental health symptoms, life transitions and the diagnosis and treament of cancer.  

My research interests include psychological sequelae of a cancer diagnosis.	1002252
I have been interested in community mental health and have published in the field of rural psychiatry.  I am currently interested in cognitive disorders and associated psychiatric syndromes in my work at the Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease Center. 

	1002340
Biologic Therapy, Breast cancer, CTCL	1002357
Steven Rosen, MD, FACP, is Genevieve Teuton Professor of Medicine, at the Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University and Director of the Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center of Northwestern University and Director of Cancer Programs at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.  Following his graduation with distinction from Northwestern University Medical Schools Six-Year Honors Program in 1976, Dr. Rosen completed his residency in Internal Medicine at Northwestern and a fellowship in Medical Oncology at the National Cancer Institute. Dr. Rosens laboratory research focuses on experimental therapeutics and hematologic malignancies.  Dr. Rosen has received numerous grants awards and contracts and has published more than 200 scientific papers.  As Director of the Cancer Center, Dr. Rosen has successfully competed for an NCI Cancer Center Support Grant, NCI grants for his laboratory research, an NCI RAID Contract grant for the development of a novel purine analog, and grants from the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society of America and the American Cancer Society.

Dr. Rosen serves on several editorial boards and is editor of Cancer Treatment & Research.  He is a member of all major national associations that focus on oncology and has held leadership positions in the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group, the American Association of Cancer Institutes and the National Comprehensive Cancer Network.  He serves on the advisory boards of several NCI-designated Cancer Centers, the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society of America, the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation, the Lymphoma Research Foundation and the Wendy Will Cancer Research Foundation.  He has also served as an advisor to Great Britains Cancer Research Campaign.  Dr. Rosen was the recipient of Northwestern University Medical Schools Alumni Achievement Award (1994), the Martin Luther King Humanitarian Award from Northwestern Memorial Hospital (1995), the Marv Samuel Award from the Chicago Baseball Cancer Charities (1996) and recognition from the Womens Board of Northwestern Memorial Hospital for Compassionate Care (1996).  He is acknowledged in Best Doctors in America and Best Doctors in Chicago.
	1002357
transformation, mesothelioma, cyclins, phosphatases, apoptosis, transactivation
	1002413
Clinical research interests include pituitary disease leading to hypopituitarism or hormonal excess syndroms, such as acromegaly, hyperprolactinemia and Cushing's disease.  Basic research interests are focused on the growth hormone-IGF I axis.  Currently ongoing studies include the characterization of genetic GHRH receptor deficiency and the evaluation of tissue-specific growth hormone actions using a growth hormone receptor knockout model.	1002417
growth hormone, growth hormone action, growth hormone receptor, growth hormone binding protein, growth hormone releasing hormone receptor, insulin-like growth factor, growth, development, metabolism
	1002417
Dr. Rothke's clinical work and research involves professional issues in neuropsychology such as expert testimony, disability determination, competency evaluation (ability to work, manage finances, and manage personal affairs, and assessment of testamentary capacity), development of job modifications to accommodate a mental or emotional disability, evaluation of risk for violence and determination of fitness-for-duty, and assessment of malingering and exaggerated claims of impairment.  

	1002485
learning and memory, multiple single-unit electrophysiology, behavior, classical conditioning, transgenic mice, knockout mice, alzheimer's disease, hippocampus, cerebellum, aging
	1002521
Gonadal Development, Pituitary, Gonadotropins, Activin, LH, FSH


	1002617
My overall interests are in mammalian reproduction. In previous years, I studied the regulation of pituitary gondaotropin gene expression and hormone secretion. More recently, I have been working on two topics. The first is trying to determine the genetic cascades involved in male/female sex determination and subsequent development of the gonad. Most of this time is spent on a genome-wide mutagenesis screen for genes involved in spermatogenesis. The second is the control of gene expression by estrogen receptor alpha via mechanisms that do not involve the classical estrogen response element in DNA (the so-called "non-classical" mechanisms).	1002617
Angina with normal coronary arteries, Coronary artery disease, Coronary circulatory abnormalities	1002633
epidemiology of systemic lupus erythematosus, pregnancy and rheumatic diseases, osteoporosis, steroid-induced osteoporosis, clinical drug trials in lupus



	1002643
gender and arrhytmias, dynamics of fibrillation	1002644
GLI transcription factors, genetics and biochemical mechanisms of action in normal development and disease states.

Stem cell allocation in organ development.

http://www.childrensmrc.org/iannaccone/

	1002699
Adrenal tumors, Endocrine tumors, Hyperparathyroidism, Islet cell tumors of pancreas, Laparoscopic adrenal surgery, Minimally invasive parathyroid surgery, Parathyroid tumors, Pheocromocytoma, Thyroid cancer, Thyroid tumors	1002702
Clinical research in methods of testing for diabetic peripheral neuropathy	1002719
Education Processes, Teaching Learning, Gender issues in Health care

	1002721
General practice of Adult Psychiatry, with concentration on Mood and Anxiety Disorders. I also have a particular interest in Alzheimers Disease and other dementias.	1002793
Comprehensive care of adults	1002799
Bioreductive drugs, hypoxia, adjuvant therapy, radiosensitization, metalloproteinase-inhibitors, imaging for hypoxia, 19F-MRS, spermidine-derivatives,
drug activation.	1002912
Cardiac prevention, Coronary disease, General cardiology, Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, Valve disease


	1002958
POSTTRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER
INTERACTIVE DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY, CHILD DEVELOPMENT, FAMILY LIFE, VIDEO GAMES, INTERNET, CELL PHONES, COMPUTER 
	1002979
public psychiatry, behavioral health & human service systems, public health, public policy

	1003038
Chronic renal failure, Hypertension	1003070
Breast Surgical Oncology	1003094
Laura A Miller is a prosthetist at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago and an Assistant Professor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at Northwestern University, participating in research through the Neural Engineering Center for Artificial Limbs (NECAL). She completed her MS and PhD in Biomedical Engineering at Northwestern University.  She has multiple publications in the area of normal gait and lower limb prosthetics.  She also has an interest in and has been an author in the area of high-level upper limb prosthetic fittings. Laura is an ABC and Illinois licensed prosthetist and a member of the AAOP and the ISPO.   	1003171
Regulation of the cardiac L-type calcium channel at the molecular level	1003176
Exploration of the clinical and epidemiologic significnce of the I1307K APC mutation associated with colorectal cancer in Ashkenazi Jews.	1003231
clinical significance of the I1307k APC mutation in colorectal carcinoma; aromatase inhibitors breast cancer

	1003231
Management of chronic pain (low back, neuropathic, cancer, myofascial).
Management of acute postoperative pain.
Regional anesthesia.
Outcome measures in pain research.
Safety and neuraxial and regional anesthesia (e.g. anticoagulation and regional anesthesia)

	1003275
Dr. Molitch performs clinical research in the fields of pituitary hormone regulation, pathogenesis and treatment of pituitary tumors, and diabetes complications. His research is conducted primarily in the Clinical Research Center.

	1003295
Pathogenesis & treatment of pituitary tumors, treatment of diabetic complications 
	1003295
Ambulatory anesthesia, Neurosurgical anesthesia	1003302
Neuropsychology
	1003361
Health services research, Prostate, Public policy	1003390
Oral Pathology <BR><BR>
Squamous cell carcinoma and precancerous lesions histologically indistinguishable from those arising in tobacco-exposed oral mucosa can be induced in the hamster buccal pouch by topical application of chemical carcinogens. We are employing this model to clarify the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in chemical squamous mucosal carcinogenesis and for the development of novel strategies for cancer chemoprevention and therapy.	1003403
Neisseria gonorrhoeae, gonorrhea, pilus, antigenic variation, DNA transformation, DNA replication, DNA repair, antioxidant functions, neutrophil interactions. epithelium interactions


	1003426
The laboratory is interested in understanding the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis and immunoregulation of T cell-mediated autoimmune diseases and rejection of tissue and organ transplants.  In particular, we are studying the therapeutic use of specific immune tolerance for the treatment of animal models of multiple sclerosis and type 1 diabetes, as well as using tolerance for specific prevention of rejection of allogeneic and xenogeneic tissue and organ transplants.	1003444
Clinical trials/ Women's health iniative. 
	1003466
Research Interests: Treatment Outcome, Serious Mental Illness

Clinical Interests: Depression, Anxiety, Relationship Issues	1003627
Head and neck surgery, Sinus problems, Snoring, Taste and smell disorders	1003628
Diabetes in pregnancy, High risk pregnancies	1003634
Male and female sexual dysfunctions ...  
Erectile dysfunction ... 
Low sexual desire ...
Sexual arousal problems ...
Sexual pain ...
Compulsive sexual behavior / Sexual addiction ... 
Gender identity issues ... 
Professional sexual misconduct ... 
Sexual abuse issues ...
Sexual orientation isues ...
Marital and relationship problems






	1003637
Signal transduction, proteomics, systems biology, neurodegenerative disease, vascular disease	1003653
Dr. Young's research focuses on the sympathetic nervous system and the adrenal medulla. His laboratory is investigating the impact of environmental exposures during fetal and neonatal life on sympathoadrenal development. The hypothesis being tested is that development events 'program' how the sympathoadrenal system functions throughout life. Recently, the laboratory has begun to explore the role of estrogens in both male and female animals in this programming process. The implications of such changes during early development on the phenotypic expression of obesity and hypertension in adults are also under examination.	1003694
Breast cancer surgery	1003731
SOFT TISSUE AND BONE PATHOLOGY
	1003772
Breast cancer, General oncology	1003787
Dr. Chang is a rheumatologist with more than 20 years of clinical experience.  His major clinical interest is in rehabilitative rheumatology, and he is regarded as an expert in this field.  He is the Director of the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago Arthritis Center and Immediate Past Chair of the Rehabilitation Section of the American College of Rheumatology.  He is co-author of the rehabilitation chapter in Koopmans and Moreland's textbook, Arthritis and Allied Conditions, one of the major international rheumatology textbooks. 

Dr. Chang has been the Director of the Northwestern University Master of Public Health Program since its reorganization in 1996.   During this time he has led the program to achieve pre-accreditation by the Council on Education for Public Health in 2000 and full accreditation from CEPH in 2003.  The program focuses on public health education for medical students and health professionals and trains its students to become effective boundary-spanners between the fields of medicine and public health, an appropriate description of Dr. Chang's professional career.  In September, 2005, Dr. Chang was appointed Acting Chair of the Department of Preventive Medicine.  

Dr. Chang is noted for his clinical epidemiologic/health services research focused on the outcomes of rehabilitation and orthopaedic surgical treatments for persons with arthritis and the determinants of functional limitation in clinical and community populations with arthritis.  Much of his community population work has been done in collaboration with Dorothy Dunlop, PhD and Larry Manheim, PhD.  He also has experience performing decision analysis and cost-effective analysis in collaboration with Dr. Manheim and Gordon Hazen, PhD.  With several research and clinical colleagues, Dr. Chang is currently developing and testing a physical activity promotion program for patients with arthritis.  Dr. Chang's public health oriented research, reflective of his formal public health training and interests, has also led to his prominence in the arthritis public health community both at the state and national level.  As a volunteer for the Arthritis Foundation as well as a representative of the Northwestern University Multidisciplinary Clinical Research Center in Rheumatology and the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago's Arthritis Center, Dr. Chang is a major contributor to the new state-based arthritis prevention program based in the Illinois Department of Public Health.  He is an active volunteer for the Arthritis Foundation, where he is a Co-Chair of the National Office's Public Health Council and the immediate past Chair of the Foundation's Greater Chicago Chapter.	1003800
Dr. Chang is noted for his clinical epidemiologic/health services research focused on the outcomes of rehabilitation and orthopaedic surgical treatments for persons with arthritis and the determinants of functional limitation in clinical and community populations with arthritis.  Much of his community population work has been done in collaboration with Dorothy Dunlop, PhD and Larry Manheim, PhD.  He also has experience performing decision analysis and cost-effective analysis in collaboration with Dr. Manheim and Gordon Hazen, PhD.  With several research and clinical colleagues, Dr. Chang developed and is currently testing a physical activity promotion program for patients with arthritis, supported by a five-year investigator-initiated grant funded by the National Institutes of Health.	1003800
prostate cancer, androgen-response genes, growth control


	1003810
osteoporosis, kidney stones, rickets, calcium disorders, phosphate disorders, glucocorticoids, bone dysplasias


	1003837
Dr. Lowe's research focuses on various aspects of growth factors and metabolism.  He has a long-standing interest in the insulin-like growth factors and has recently investigated the role of the insulin-like growth factors in pancreatic islet cell biology, especially in the context of islet cell transplantation.  Other research interests include the generation of insulin-secreting cells from embryonic stem cells and the genetics of complex diseases.


	1003874
The Lowe lab has two areas of research interest.  One area of study is the genetics of maternal glycemia during pregnancy and fetal growth and their interaction.  A cohort of ~13,000 mothers and their babies are being used in genome wide association and related studies to define genetic variation affecting these traits.  A second area of study is the development of bioactive materials to enhance islet transplantation.  These studies are being conducted in the context of a research team that includes islet biologists, bioengineers and transplant surgeons.  In related studies, the mechanisms for islet expansion during pregnancy are being examined to define mechanisms for islet cell expansion.	1003874
Hepatic disease, Hepatitis B and C, Viral infections	1003916
Steven L. Flamm, MD is a Professor of Medicine in the Division of Hepatology at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago, Illinois.  He also serves as the Medical Director of Liver Transplantation.

Dr. Flamm is a member of the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) and the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD).  He has served as the Region 7 Representative to the UNOS Liver and Intestine Committee and on the Publication and Practice Guidelines Committees of the AALSD.

Dr. Flamm has published widely in the field of hepatic diseases and has spoken both nationally and internationally on many other liver-related topics including viral Hepatitis, autoimmune hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, and liver transplantation.  He has an active clinical research program in chronic viral hepatitis (HBV and HCV) and autoimmune hepatitis.
	1003916
Independent work in Pharmacovigilance;  Post-Marketing Safety Surveillance of Drugs and Medical Devices

	1003933
Dr. Chmiels current research interests are in the epidemiology of HIV-1 infection, statistical methods for the design and analysis of clinical and epidemiological studies of cancer, osteoarthritis and AIDS, and clinical trial design and analysis.	1003978
Benign Hematology, Clotting, Phlebitis	1004010
Co-investigator in the MultiEthnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) and Walking and Leg Circulation Study (WALCS)
Laboratory evaluation of hemostasis and thrombosis in various clinical models	1004010
A Phase II, Randomized, Parallel-Group, Open-Label, Multicenter Study to Evaluate the Effects of Rituximab on Immune Responses in Subjects with Active Rheumatoid Arthritis
Receiving Background Methotrexate (Protocol# U3374g), Genentech, Inc.
	1004023
A Randomized, Placebo Controlled, Double-Blind,
Parallel Group, International Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of
Rituximab (MabThera /Rituxan) in Combination with Methotrexate, Compared to
Methotrexate Monotherapy, in Patients with Active Rheumatoid Arthritis (Protocol Number U2973G), Genentech, Inc.
	1004023
A randomized, multifactorial, double-blind, parallel-group, dose ranging study of the efficacy and safety of Rituximab (mab Thera R/Rituxan) in combination with methotrexate in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. Sponsored by Roche Products Ltd,/Genetech, Inc.	1004023
A randomized, phase 3, controlled, double-blind, parallel-group, multicenter study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of rituximab in combination with methotrexate (MTX) compared to MTX alone, in methotrexate-na√Øve patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. (Protocol WA17047/U3373g), Genentech, Inc.	1004023
An Open-label Study of the Efficacy and Safety of Re- Treatment with Rituximab (MabThera/Rituxan) in patients with Active Rheumatoid Arthritis (Protocol WA 16855/U2653g). Roche Products Ltd,/Genetech, Inc..	1004023
Humira Efficacy Response Optimization Study in Subjects with Active Rheumatoid Arthritis (HERO). Abbott Laboratories M04-684,	1004023
I am a borad certified Otolaryngologist, with subspecialty certification in Neurotology.  I completed a fellowship in Otology and Neurotology, which is a subspecialty in Otolaryngology that deals with disorders and surgery of the ear and ear related skull base structures.  My interests are in cochlear implants, cochlear implant research, diseases of ear, skull base surgery, skull base tumors, Gamma Knife surgery, acoustic neuromas, otosclerosis and facial nerve disorers.

	1004025
I maintain a generalist psychotherapy practice, seeing patients with anxiety, depression, life transition, stress, and relationship problems.  I maintain an ongoing interest in substance use disorders.	1004062
Cardiovascular anesthesia, Thoracic anesthesia, Transplantation anesthesia, Pharmacokinetics of inhaled anesthetics
	1004070
I am both a general and a child/adolescent psychiatrist.  I am interested in treating mood disorders in children and adults, especially bipolar disorder.  I emphasize medication management coupled with psychotherapy.  I also treat ADHD; it has a high frequency as a comorbidity with mood disorders.  	1004121
Application of technology within public mental health services systems to facilitate system planning, improve service accessibility and utilization, and monitoring of outcomes; as well as child welfare policy and administration.  	1004130
Epidemiology of gestational diabetes, relationship between blood glucose during pregnancy and various outcomes.	1004250
     1.  2003-2004   Principal Investigator: A 52 week randomized, double-blinded, single dummy, parallel group, multi-center, Phase III study comparing the long-term safety of Symbicort pMBI 160/4.5 x 4 actuations twice daily to Symbicort pMDI 160/4.5 x 2 actuations twice daily, and Budesonide HFA pMDI 160 x 4 actuations twice daily, in adult and adolescent subjects with asthma.

     ......2. 2001-2003  Principal Investigator:  A multi-center, randomized, double-blinded, double-dummy, parallel group, 16-week comparison of Asthma control in adolescents and adults receiving either Fluticasone/Salmeterol Discus combination, Fluticasone Discus, Salmeterol Discus or oral Montelukast.

     .......3. 2001-2002  Principal Investigator:  An open label extension study of Omalizamab in Moderate to Severe , Persistent Asthma subjects who completed Study ALTO

     .......4. 2000-2001  Principal Investigator:  A multi-center, randomized, controlled, open-label study to evaluate the safety of Omalizumab (monoclonal anti-IgE) in Moderate to Severe, Persistent Asthma subjects already treated with other therapies.

     ...........5. 2000  Principal Investigator:  An observational study of the epidemiology and natural history of Asthma: outcomes and treatment regimens.

     ......6. 2000  Principal Investigator:  A randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, multi-center study of the efficacy and safety of Cetirizine-Sudafed vs. Loratadine-sudafed vs placebo in the treatment of Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis.

     .........7. 1998  Principal Investigator:  A randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, multi-center study of the efficacy, safety, and effect on quality of life, work productivity and activity impairment of Cetirizine vs. placebo in the treatment of Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis

     ......8. 1998  Principal Investigator:  A multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of HFA Flunisolide vs. CFC flunisolide in Pediatric patients with Mild to Moderate Asthma.	1004289
Benign hema, Blood coagulation	1004322
Effective psychological treatment today requires a flexibility of approach as well as the ability to ask the right psychological questions. By engaging patients quickly and thoroughly assessing clinical needs and resources, I am able to work with the patient in order to develop the proper mix of problem-focused interventions and more traditional psychotherapy. Each patient's problems and strengths must be evaluated on an individual basis. I view psychotherapy as a collaborative proceess in which the patient(s) and I work together in order to understand how current situations and past influences impact the well-being of the patient's current life and future goals. In addition to using a flexible approach to treatment, when appropriate, I communicate clearly with other professionals involved in treating the patient, couple, or family. I work with adults as individuals, couples, or parents, and with adolescents and families. Having trained in both clinical and developmental psychology gives me a unique life-span perspective in both normal and pathological psychological processes. 
	1004324
Comorbid psychiatric disorders, Trauma and loss, Mental health needs and risky behaviors of offenders, HIV/AIDS/STIs, Criminalization of mentally ill	1004331
Primary care internal medicine, Women's healthcare	1004333
My current clinical research interests include critical care medicine with a focus on the neurologically injured patient population.  However, as Medical Directory of the Northwestern Memorial Hospital Emergency Response Team, I am also interested in the systems analyses of in-hospital resuscitation teams which are being described and investigated using an IRB approved research database.  Additionally, as Clerkship Co-Director of the NUFSM ICU M4 Clerkship, I have begun work on investigating the use of patient simulation in undergraduate medical education as an educational adjunct.
	1004377
Carework, caring in long-term care, direct care workers, long-term care
	1004379
Dr. Berdes, a sociologist, does research in the field of long-term care. She is involved in the study of person-centered care, particularly in the nature of caring relationships between people living in residential care and their paid caregivers.	1004379
Pediatric HIV infection: novel therapies, growth, medication adherence
	1004381
cancer, epidemiology, prevention, intermediate biomarkers, prostate cancer, breast cancer, diet, hormones
	1004426
transforming growth factor-beta, Smads, kidney, mesangial cell, collagen, fibrogenesis, tgf-beta



	1004472
Atopic dermatitis, blistering skin disease, basement membrane, animal model, cytokine, chemokine, autoimmunity, autoantibody, autoantigen, immunogenetic
	1004570
The research in the Ferreira lab is focused on the mechanisms underlying neurite degeneration and synapse loss in neurodegenerative diseases


	1004642
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Muscular dystrophies, Myasthenia gravis, Neurogenetic disorders, Neuromuscular diseases, Peripheral neuropathies	1004646
Neuroimmunology, demyelinating disease
	1004676
Prostate biology, prostate cancer, cell differentiation, growth factor signaling, apoptosis, gene therapy, cell-cell interaction, TGF-beta, benign prostate growth.
	1004817
Dr. Jameson's research focuses on molecular endocrinology. His laboratory investigates fundamental mechanisms that control the transcription of endocrine genes. Concerted efforts are made to bridge laboratory studies with clinical endocrinology using recombinant DNA methods to investigate the pathophysiology of endocrine disorders.	1004883
Nuclear receptors, SF-1, Dax-1, Gonadal development, Transgenic mice, Reproduction, Thyroid

	1004883
Care of patients with HIV infection, Primary care internal medicine	1004892
Dr. Kiang Liu received his BS degree in mathematics from Fu-Jen University, Taiwan, in 1970 and his PhD degree in statistics from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, in 1976. That year, he joined Northwestern University Medical School as a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Community Health and Preventive Medicine's training program in cardiovascular epidemiology sponsored by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI). Following his post-doctoral training (1979), he received a research career development award from the NHLBI and became an assistant professor in the department. From 1983 to 1988 he was an associate professor and beginning in 1988 he has been a professor in the Department of Preventive Medicine.

Dr. Liu's research interests are in cardiovascular epidemiology and statistical methodology for epidemiologic research. He has authored or co-authored more than 270 papers or book chapters on these topics. He is the Principal Investigator of the CARDIA Chicago Field Center, an NHLBI-funded longitudinal collaborative study on lifestyle and evolution of cardiovascular risk factors in young adults and Principal Investigator of the MESA Chicago Field Center, an NHLBI-funded longitudinal study on factors related to subclinical cardiovascular disease. He is also the Principal Investigator of the MESA Family Study. 	1004893
Flow Cytometry   Immunology<BR><BR>
Diagnostic Test Development, Functional Flow Cytometry Test Development, Pediatric Immune Deficiency, Immune Regulation in Autoimmune disease	1004916
proteinase regulation, extracellular matrix proteolysis, adhesion molecules, ovarian cancer, oral squamous cell carcinoma, matrix metalloproteinases, plasminogen activators

	1005031
Epstein-Barr virus transformation, latency, and entry.
	1005100
depression, psychiatry, affective disorders, treatment, experimental models, circadian rhythms

	1005132
CLINICAL INTERESTS: Neuropsychological evaluation of adults including effects of subtance use and ADHD. Psychological evaluation of adults including psychotic, mood, and anxiety disorders.
	1005197
Organization, financing of health care, health law, child health

	1005219
Vestibular, Oculomotor, Vision, Otoliths, Neurophysiology, Neuroanatomy, Behavior, Electromyography
	1005227
Gallbladder, Gastrointestinal tract, Hernias, Laparoscopy, Obesity, Skin and subcutaneous, Spleen	1005231
My current research interests include the administration of Substance P to improve allergen immunotherapy, the role of staphylococcal enterotoxins in the immunopathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis, TLR signaling in food allergy, and health disparities in asthma outcomes.

Other research interests on which I have previously published include allergen immunotherapy, drug hypersensitvity, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, occupational asthma, and asthma in the disadvantaged elderly.	1005232
immunopathogenesis, of, allergic, diseases, such, as, asthma, rhinosinusitis, drug, hypersensitivity

	1005232
Full time Associate Director of the Integrated Graduate Program in the Life Sciences, the umbrella PhD program for the Feinberg School of Medicine at Northwestern University.	1005233
In vitro fertilization, Infertility, polycystic ovary syndrome, fertility preservation	1005241
leukocyte adhesion and migration, signal transduction, plasma cell development
	1005250
Our research aims to elucidate the mechanisms by which chronic activation of glia in the brain, especially astrocytes and microglia, leads to damage of the neurons and progressive neurodegeneration in diseases like Alzheimer's disease. The overall goal is to utilize knowledge of potentially "druggable" pathways to develop new therapeutics. The normal role of the glia is to cooperate with the neurons to keep the brain operating smoothly. When an injury or change in the brain occurs, the glia mount an inflammation response to fight off the insult and restore the brain to its proper functioning. But in neurodegenerative diseases, the glia are over-activated, producing a state called neuroinflammation. Neuroinflammation can lead to nerve cell dysfunction or death, which is manifest as dementia. Although neuroinflammation appears to play a pivotal role in the development and progression of neurodegeneration, the molecular mechanisms underlying the process and approaches to downregulate the neuroinflammation have received little attention.


	1005265
signal transduction, drug discovery, neurochemistry, medicinal chemistry, neurodegenerative disorders, cancer, calmodulin, protein kinases, phosphorylation, structural biology	1005304
herpesviruses, viral entry, cell fusion
	1005318
Sports Medicine	1005415
Abnormal PAP smears, Gynecologic surgery, Pelvic relaxation	1005472
Adolescent gynecology, General obstetrics and gynecology, Pediatric gynecology	1005483
Addictions psychiatry, Forensic psychiatry	1005622
Critical care medicine, Phrenic nerve pacers	1005723
Primary Care, Clinical Director, Resident and Medical Student Education


	1005724
Primary current concentration is in pediatric cardiology and echocardiography of congenital heart disease.  Interests also include outcomes research, epidemiology of congenital heart disease and medical education.	1005807
Diagnostic immunology, Renal pathology, Urologic cancers	1005814
Asthma, COPD	1005815
papillomaviruses, cervical cancer, epithelila cells, diffrentiation	1005849
Cataract surgery, Comprehensive ophthalmology	1005925
Gastrointestinal cancers, Breast cancer, Lung/thoracic oncology, Gynecologic Oncology, Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT), Sarcomas	1005930
Surgical Pathology	1005937
Breast pathology, General surgical pathology	1005994
Bench: Gangliosides, keratinocytes, signaling; Clinical: Genetics, immune skin, atopic dermatitis
	1006032
Stroke, Arm Dysfunction following stroke, Electrical Stimulation
	1006034
Asthma, Inflammatory interstitial lung disease, Pulmonary infections	1006055
Dr. Greenland's research, teaching and clinical interests focus on the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. He has authored or co-authored over 250 research papers, book chapters, and monographs on topics related to heart disease prevention, heart disease in women, and other aspects of heart disease. Dr. Greenland's current research involves heart diseases in women, risk factors for cardiovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease epidemiology, prediction of CVD, and nutritional aspects of high blood pressure. 

Dr. Greenland was also Principal Investigator (PI) for several NIH-funded training programs including the Northwestern University Mentored Clinical Scholars Program (K12), and the Post-doctoral Training Program (T32) in Cardiovascular Disease Epidemiology and Prevention. He is currently PI for Northwestern's CTSA program.	1006058
My research, teaching and clinical interests all focus on the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. My current collaborative research focuses on women's health, heart diseases in women, risk factors for cardiovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease epidemiology, and nutritional aspects of high blood pressure. 
I am Principal Investigator for the NIH-funded "CV and non-CV Risks in Four Cohorts."I am also Principal Investigator of several NIH-funded training programs including the Clinical Research Curriculum Award (K-30), the Mentored Clinical Scholars Program (K-12), and the Post-doctoral Training Program (T32) in Cardiovascular Disease Epidemiology and Prevention.
	1006058
the role of nutrition in prevention and public health	1006210
Clinical Neurology with an emphasis on peripheral nerve disorders.
	1006247
Blood banking, Transfusion medicine<BR><BR>

We have published works in a broad range of areas in blood banking and immunohematology, with focus on the challenging transfusion problems of organ transplantation, and in particular, liver transplants. Our transfusion service has a strong emphasis on the quality improvement of laboratory testing and clinical support. We have implemented innovative systems for monitoring blood component usage, managing blood component recalls, and preventing ABO errors in organ transplants. Recently we were the first hospital in the US to install a newly approved system for full automation of pretransfusion testing. Through various committees in recent years, we have contributed to national forums for blood banking policies, accreditation, and disaster planning.	1006275
Chronic pain syndromes, Stereotactic radiosurgery, Tumors of the brain and spine	1006301
My primary research interest involves understanding the mechanisms by which extracellular matrix influences the behavior of keratinocytes and lung cells. 
	1006308
Bursitis, General rheumatology, Regional musculoskeletal disorders	1006346
Dr. Zelko has conducted research on neurocognitive functioning with a number of pediatric populations including epilepsy, lupus, kidney disease, liver disease, and spina bifida, and has a number of publications and scientific presentations.  He is presently participating in multi-site studies of the cognitive sequalue of sickle cell disease, pediatric lupus, childhood absence epilepsy, chronic kidney disease, liver transplant, peditric cancer, and phenylketonuria.  His primary focus at present is upon pediatric epilepsy, with a particular emphasis upon attention and executive skills deficits. 
	1006385
Dr. Ford-Paz is the Coordinating Psychologist of the Mood & Anxiety Program at Children's Memorial Hospital and provides evidence-based evaluation and individual, family, and group cognitive behavioral therapy in Spanish and English for a variety of anxiety and depressive disorders.  Dr. Ford-Paz also has clinical and research interests in the reduction of mental health disparities for Latino youth and families. More specifically, she is interested in the cultural adaptation of evidence-based treatment to improve treatment retention and outcomes for Latino youth.  	1006470
General diagnostic radiology	1006492
I am interested in the development of teaching resources for undergraduate medical education.  I have authored an embryology book, created two websites for radiologic anatomy, a website of electron micrographs, and converted the M1 histology laboratories from the use of microscopes to the study of digital slides.
	1006495
Abdominal wall reconstruction, hernia repair, breast reconstruction, hand surgery, treatment of hand ischemia, peripheral nerve surgery, surgery for amputees, reconstructive microsurgery
	1006593
Quantitative MR strategies for deriving measurements of neurological status in vivo.  Risk factors and Biomarkers of neurological progression in HIV infection.  Quantitative imaging measurements of the bone marrow and relationship to cognitive decline.  Cytokines/Chemokines, particularly MCP-1, and relevance to neurological status.


	1006601
I am a member of a group of investigators under the leadership of Leema Sharma, MD and funded by the National Institutes of Health to study mechanical influences on the progression of knee osteoarthritis. 
	1006641
1. Severe Asthma-We are investigating the associated conditions and immunologic mechanisms of excessive loss of lung function in patients wtih "irreversible asthma"-a condition first described here. 
2. Drug Allergy-We are continuing our series of penicillin testing and protocol development for patients allergic to newer agents including immunomodulatory therapies. 
3. Allergic Bronchopulmonary Aspergillosis-Our series of patients is over 25; we are testing the notion that impaired responses by the innate immune defenses allow for Aspergillus fumigatus to escape containment and grow in the bronchial mucus. We continue to explore the utility of recombinant Aspergillus fumigatus allergens for diagnostic testing.
4. Reduction in allergic antibody in human allergic subjects- we are testing the notion that the combination of the neuropeptide, Substance P with low dose allergen administration can decrease the immediate cutaneous and clinical reactivity. The initial results of 8 allergic rhinitis subjects have been published. There is an active IND with the FDA, and we are enrolling more subjects for the controlled study and investigation into the mechanisms involved. 	1006773
Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, Anaphylaxis, Drug allergy, Severe asthma, Urticaria
	1006773
Addictions psychiatry, General adult psychiatry, Mood Disorders, Psychopharmacology	1006778
Family and Cosmetic Dentistry including veneers, crowns, implants, dentures, root canal, TMJ disorders, periodontal (gum) diseases, dentistry with sedation	1006781
Primate, Neuron, Limb Movement, Cerebellum, Motor cortex, Electromyography, Systems analysis, Motor learning, microelectrode
	1006815
Injury epidemiology, injury prevention
	1006832
Patientsafety/medical error, Iatrogenesis
	1006854
Research Interests include funding and delivery of health care and health disparities.	1006854
Neurobiology of the mammalian spinal cord
	1006865
urinary tract infections, prostatitis, chronic pelvic pain syndrome
	1006981
I practice primary care sporst medicine.  Currently a team physician for the Chicago Bears (NFL) and US Soccer Men's National Team.
	1007010
ARDS, Sepsis, Cystic fibrosis, mechanisms of fibrosis in lung disease.
	1007084
Director of Adult Cystic Fibrosis Services	1007084
Prevention, detection and treatment of child maltreatment

	1007103
I am interested primarily in the therapeutic action of psychoanalytic therapy.  I investigate from a clinical perspective what factors are decisive in changing psychic experience and psychic strucuture.  To this end, I use object relations theories.  My theoretical work has been focused on applying these theories, in all their iterations, to the therapeutic process.  My secondary interest is in the application of psychoanalytic thinking to social and cultural issues.
	1007177
Psychotherapy, Psychoanalysis



	1007180
General urology, Prostate cancer, Urologic oncology	1007188
Regional Anesthesia in Children
Pain Management in Children

	1007298
breast, cancer, tumorigenesis, estrogen, receptor, coactivator, transcription, regulation, knockout, transgenic
<BR><BR>

To understand the role of nuclear receptor coactivators in regulation of cell specific gene transcriptional activation by estrogen receptor, and how the interruption to this regulation contributes to breast tumorigenesis.	1007337
Addictions psychiatry, Chemical dependence	1007375
Martin McCarthy is a health psychologist and a health services researcher with two main interests -- the use of behavioral and information technologies in health promotion and the assessment of patient-level outcomes of medical care. Dr. McCarthy holds an AB degree in History from Georgetown University, an MA in Experimental Psychology from Columbia University, a PhD in Community Psychology from New York University, and he completed a Post-Doctoral Fellowship in Health Psychology at Northwestern's Feinberg School of Medicine. He is a trained psychotherapist and is licensed to practice as a clinical psychologist in New York State and in Illinois. Previous academic appointments were at the Center for Health Services and Policy Research at Northwestern University, the Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology in the School of Public Health at Columbia University, and the Milhauser Laboratories at New York University Medical Center. Internet-based multimedia interventions have been developed for use in health plans, clinics, school systems, and patients' homes. Projects have focused on reducing childrens experimentation with tobacco products, preventing sexually transmitted diseases in adolescents, promoting skin cancer control in a range of age groups, improving management of risk factors in diabetic patients, promoting the early detection of breast cancer in older women, teaching multimodal pain management to patients with acute and chronic back injuries, and preventing and managing depression in patients with comorbid health problems. Health services research projects focus on the assessment of functional status, health-related quality of life, and psychosocial risk factors via Computerized Adaptive Testing. Previous studies have examined the impact of processes and structures of care on outcomes of cardiac surgery; outcomes of laparascopic and open surgical procedures; and behavioral risk factors in the epidemiology of cardiovascular disease.
	1007378
I maintain a office-based private practice in adult psychiatry, seeing patients in dynamically-informed/eclectic psychotherapy, and for pharmacotherapy when indicated. My fellowship training was in addiction medicine, and I maintain a special interest, and current Psychiatry Board certification, in that subspecialty.	1007424
Clinical research involving tuberculosis and other HIV-related infections. 

	1007443
Abnormal gynecological bleeding, Fibroids, Vaginitis	1007508
Stroke rehabilitation, neurorehabilitation, geriatric rehabilitation, outcomes research, medical comorbidities	1007711
Medical care of the patient with diabetes, Medical care of the patient with hypertension, Primary care internal medicine	1007950
I maintain an active practice focusing primarily on Cornea and External Eye Disease.  I have a high volume of cornea transplantation patients and am amongst the first in the nation to perform modern endothelial keratoplasty surgery.  I also continue to explore areas of corneal stem cell transplantation and traditional corneal transplantation, infectious disease, and oncology of the ocular surface.	1007979
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a significant medical condition and current treatment options are ineffective in diabetic patients and in prostate cancer patients treated by prostatectomy.  Sonic hedgehog (SHH) is an essential regulator of penile smooth muscle, cavernous nerve (CN) integrity and CN regeneration that has significant potential to be developed as a treatment to prevent ED by regenerating the CN and by suppressing penile apoptosis.  In our laboratory we examine fundamental mechanisms that underlie cavernous nerve regulation of penile morphology during development, how these mechanisms become altered with peripheral neuropathy of the cavernous nerve in diabetic rats and how manipulation of SHH signaling can be used to speed cavernous nerve repair in diabetic models. 

	1007992
Dentin phosphophoryn (DPP), the major noncollagenous protein of tooth dentin matrix is synthesized as dentin sialophosphoprotein (DSPP) by the mesenchyme-derived odontoblasts. We have found a spatio-temporal expression during mouse embryonic development in cells of epithelial origin. At day-13 of embryonic gestation, DPP was localized to the enamel organ at  the developing tooth cap stage, with heaviest immuno-histochemical staining at the oral ectoderm but was also prominent in the inner enamel epithelium. Interestingly, at the same embryonic stage, DPP was also expressed in the ureteric bud branches of the metanephric kidney and in the alveolar epithelial buds of the developing lung. No expression was seen in the mesenchymal component of either organ. Interestingly inclusion of anti-DPP antibodies in E-13 organ cultures of kidneys harvested from wild type mice, altered ureteric bud morphogenesis and caused looseness of the metanephric mesenchyme. These findings suggest that besides its role in mineralization of the dentin, DPP modulates epithelial-mesenchymal interactions in meristic tissues during embryonic development.
Another focus in our laboratory has been studies directed towards understanding the mechanism of mineralization in vertebrate tissues such as bone and tooth and in sea urchin tooth in invertebrates and the role of extracellular constituents of connective tissue in this complex process.  The acidic protein constituent part of extracellular matrix has been implicated in mineral deposition but the precise series of molecular reaction mechanism remains undefined. In invertebrate systems, where the mineral part is calcite or aragonite the mechanisms of molecular calcification remains even much less understood compared to vertebrates where mineral deposition is chiefly calcium hydroxyapatite. We are studying whether it is the nature of the protein or environment that determines whether we get Calcium Carbonate  or Calcium Phosphate crystals	1008044
Breast cancer clinical/translational trials investigating novel chemotherapeutic agents , endocrine therapy and targeted therapy.  These trials are conducted in the advanced and early stage disease setting	1008164
Breast cancer, Sarcoma	1008164
Anxiety disorders, Medical education	1008165
Pediatrics, obesity, practice-based research	1008334
blood coagulation, thrombolysis, cataract, neurodegenerative disease, celiac disease, transglutaminases, cell aging, proteolytic enzymes, apoptosis, terminal differentiation
	1008360
As a practicing pediatrician, I spend a great deal of my time educating children and their families about good nutrition and weight management.
	1008377
My research and public policy interests include health informatics standards, security, and adoption; public health emergency preparedness and response, communicable disease epidemiology, and public health informatics.	1008387
Primary research and clinical interest in female infertility including the impact of infertility on mood and functioning.  Also, psychological aspects of ooycte donation.
	1008614
Adult congenital heart disease, Heart disease and pregnancy, Women's cardiovascular health	1008667
General infectious disease, HIV infection	1008692
Diabetes complications of the eye, PDT laser treatment, Vitreo-retinal diseases	1008881
Primary care internal medicine, Women's healthcare	1008921
Neurologic communication disorders, aphasia, traumatic brain injury, right hemisphere stroke, discourse, neglect

	1008963
prostate cancer biology, prostate developmental biology, cell signaling, stromal-epithelial interactions







	1008970
Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, Dermatopathology, Skin cancer prevention and detection	1008991
cancer, aging, senescence, stress resistance, cell death, life span, aging associated diseases.
	1009039
My clinical interests are in long- and short-term, psychodynamically informed psychotherapy with both high-functioning and severely mentally ill adult outpatients, marital/couples therapy and clinical supervision.  My research interests include psychoanalytic theory, gender theory, fantasy, creativity, psychodynamically-informed developmental theory, the relationships between clinical work, psychological theory, and the arts and humanities, psychoanalysis and culture theory, and psychoanalytic politics.  



	1009098
Rheumatoid arthritis	1009129
aging, age-related memory loss, synapses, synapse number, synapse structure	1009168
Cosmetic, Reconstructive breast surgery, Reconstructive surgery

	1009325
I am interested in how robotic interactions can be used to improve reaching performance. My methods involve dynamic modeling, optimization, robotics, and adaptive control. Applications include rehabilitation of brain injured individuals. 	1009340
Antimicrobial resistance, Infection of the immunocompromised host, Nosocomial infections	1009343
My research interests have focused primarily on the epidemiology of healthcare associated infections and antimicrobial resistance.  Specifically, this includes investigations into the epidemiology, transmission and management of vancomycin resistant enterococci as well as other multidrug resistant bacteria.  More recently, my focus has expanded to include research into patient safety.  This includes understanding the epidemiology of medication errors and other adverse events associated with hospitalization.	1009343
My main clinical and research interests involve radionuclide imaging and therapy, including but not limited to general Nuclear Medicine imaging and therapy, positron emission tomography (PET) and PET-CT imaging, molecular imaging and Nuclear Cardiology.
	1009346
I am Chairman of Panel C of the Institutional Review Board at Northwestern, and Vice Chair of the combined Northwestern/University of Illnois VA IRB.
I have a private practice with and emphais on Adult Attnetion Deficit Disorder and Mens Health.
	1009347
My clinical interest is in long and short-term psychodynamic psychotherapy with adult outpatients.  I am particularly interested in the developmental sequelae of trauma and loss on later personality functioning and attachment/relationship patterns, as well as the therapeutic factors that affect change.  I am also interested in providing clinical supervision.
	1009379
Bone Health and Osteoporosis
Clinical densitometry
	1009475
Dementia, Osteoporosis	1009475
Epidemiologic characteristics and health service needs of special populations, HIV/AIDS risk behaviors, and mental health service utilization
	1009562
Chronic mental illness, General adult psychiatry, Schizophrenia	1009564
I am especially interested in anxiety disorders and their link to other health concerns, including cardiovascular risks, autoimmune diseases, and obesity.  I am also interested in an integrated approach to psychiatric problems that encompasses more in depth integration of biopsychosocial aspects.  Finally, I am especially interested in communicating effectively complex ideas related to my profession to medical/professional colleagues in related or other diverse fields and the public at large.  My published essays reflect my ability to reach a diverse audience.


	1009628
Dr. Pope directs a basic science laboratory, which is focused on rheumatoid arthritis, a disease that affects women much more commonly than men.  Dr. Pope's laboratory has focused on characterizing the basic mechanisms that contribute to the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis.  The work focuses on the role of macrophages and synovial fibroblasts.  His studies are directed at defining the mechanisms that promote resistance to apoptosis or programmed cell death.  They are aimed at defining the potential role of the induction of apoptosis as a therapeutic approach in this disease.  To this end his laboratory is characterizing the mechanisms that protect rheumatoid arthritis macrophages and synovial fibroblasts from apoptosis.  Investigators in his laboratory identified the upregulation of the anti-apoptotic protein, Flice Like Inhibitory Protein (FLIP), during monocyte to macrophage differentiation.  They have demonstrated that FLIP is highly expressed in the rheumatoid joint and is responsible for protecting rheumatoid arthritis macrophages from Fas-mediated apoptosis.  His laboratory is further characterizing the mechanisms for the basal expression of FLIP, and that observed following activation by cytokines and toll-like receptor ligands.  Further, studies are aimed at defining the mechanisms of macrophage cell death that occurs following TNF or Toll-like receptor ligation when NF-kB activation is suppressed.  The aim of these studies is to identify potential therapeutic targets for intervention in rheumatoid arthritis.  Additional studies are directed at determining the role of Fas-Fas ligand interactions on the promotion of chronic inflammation, which occurs by sensitizing the macrophages to activation through the Toll/IL-1 receptor pathway.  Additional studies have identified Mcl-1, another Bcl-2 family member, which is critical for the survival of macrophages and synovial fibroblasts.  Studies have demonstrated that Mcl-1 is highly expressed in the rheumatoid joint, in both macrophages and synovial fibroblasts.  Ongoing studies are directed at defining the unique mechanisms that control the expression of Mcl-1 in macrophages and synovial fibroblasts.  Both cell types appear critically dependent on Mcl-1 for survival and ongoing studies are aimed at defining the potential role of modulating mcl-1 expression or function as a therapeutic target in experimental models of rheumatoid arthritis.The goal of this program is to develop new therapies, employing apoptosis as a therapeutic tool.  Dr. Popes laboratory also collaborates with Dr. Ramsey-Goldman, developing and performing some of the assays used to evaluate osteoporosis in her patients with lupus.  These include assays to quantitative osteoprotegerin and Rank ligand as well as microarray analysis of monocytes and macrophages from patients with lupus.  	1009779
Rheumatoid Arthritis, Macrophage, Apoptosis, Cytokine, Gene Regulation

	1009779
Research Interests: Organizational behavior, long-term care and utilization of health care services, including community care, assisted living and nursing home care. Spinal cord injury - variability in prqactive, slef-management, prevention of pressure ulcers.	1010008
genomics, genome, genome structure, genome annotation, transcriptome, SAGE, gene identification



	1010177
prosthetics, orthotics, rehabilitation engineering



	1010207
My primary clinical and research interests include Neuro-ophthalmologic problems such as double vision, optic nerve problems and vision problems related to neurologic or neurosurgical problems such as tumors, trauma and strokes.  My surgical interests include refractive procedures; such as LASIK and PRK, cataract surgery; including presbyopia (reading) corrective intraocular implants and eye muscle surgery; for patients with double vision or strabismus (abnormal eye alignment).	1010213
diet, nutrition, prevention, treatment, cardiovascular epidemiology, breast cancer, child health, obesity prevention, obesity treatment, maternal nutrition	1010235
Acute myocardial infarction, Angioplasty, Coronary disease, Interventional cardiology, Rotablator, Stents	1010236
My primary clincal and research interest is in the field of fetal cardiology. I am interested in advancing screening fetal echocardiograms in addition to continuing my research in fetal arrhythmias and congenital heart disease.
	1010239
Contributed a large body of work to the literature addressing the diagnosis, biology, and treatment of acute leukemia and other hematologic malignancies.  This work includes original research articles in peer-reviewed journals, textbook chapters and reviews, monographs, editorials and abstracts.  He has spoken as an invited lecturer and chair at many national and international symposia, conferences, and meetings, including the American Society of Hematology and American Society of Clinical Oncology Annual Meetings.   	1010263
Hodgkin's disease, Leukemia, Lymphoma, Transplantation	1010263
Psychological reactions and coping with medical problems;
Biofeedback and Neurofeedback therapies;
Health and wellness assessment;
Health psychology program evaluation


	1010271
pediatric oncology, neuroblastoma, angiogenesis, clinical trials, tumor biology 
	1010291
Cardiovascular anesthesia, Thoracic anesthesia, Transplantation anesthesia	1010292
Gastrointestinal cancer surgery, Melanoma / sarcoma, Pancreatic / liver cancer  surgery, Surgical oncology	1010352
Bronchoscopy, Exercise physiology, Lung cancer	1010367
My research is focused on sensory neuroscience with special interest in espins, a novel family of multifunctional actin-bundling proteins. These proteins are present at high concentration in the parallel actin bundle of hair cell stereocilia, in the microvilli of taste receptor cells, solitary chemoreceptor cells, vomeronasal sensory neurons and Merkel cells. Mutations in espin gene cause deafness and vestibular dysfunction in mice and humans. I am investigating the effect of these mutations on the sensory systems during development and adulthood. 
	1010477
Development of cochlear implants, micromechanics of the cochlea, imaging


	1010479
Ischemic heart disease	1010557
Prosthetics, Orthotics, Mechanics, Rehabilitation	1010600
High risk pregnancies, HIV infection - perinatal, Perinatal infectious disease	1010604
Microbiology/Virology <BR><BR>
My research work is focused on studying the mechanisms that regulate the transcriptional activities of nuclear receptors. Nuclear receptors are transcription factors involved in regulation of many biological processes. In order to initiate transcription, additional factors are required to interact with nuclear receptors and to regulate their activities. These factors are collectively called as nuclear receptor co-factors. Several such co-factors have been identified by our studies. Generating mouse models using gene targeting technology to investigate the functions of these genes is in progress.	1010952
Neonatal infectious diseases, anemia/erythropoietin, nutrition for sick newborns.
	1011026
Pre - hospital emergency care	1011040
CBT for mood and anxiety disorders in adolescence and adulthood
	1011074
We are currently studying the anatomy
and physiology of myocardial scar (infarction) and how this predisposes to ventricular
tachycardia. We are utilizing advanced mapping systems to develop more effective ablation
techniques for this arrhythmia.	1011095
General surgical pathology, Pulmonary pathology<BR><BR>

Experimental pathology; chemical carcinogenesis	1011128
Ethics & economics of organ transplantation, Kidney transplantation, Living donor kidney transplant	1011244
Atrial fibrillation, Arrhythmia detection, Computerized ECG, Arrhythmia mapping, Signal processing for arrhythmias
	1011272
normal swallowing physiology, speech/swallowing dysfunction, voice disorders	1011279
The quality of parent-child relationships during infancy has long-term and significant implications for a child's healthy adaptation.  Primary care pediatricians have unique opportunities to support early family relationships because of their repeated encounters with families for well child care.  My research and teaching interests have been focused on how emerging parent-infant relationships can be supported by pediatricians and on the impact that the quality of those relationships can have on the practice of primary care pediatrics.  In the initial phase of my research, I developed and validated a research protocol for observing and understanding meaningful patterns of interaction that occur between parents and infants during well child visits.  Next, I modified the observational system for clinical use, integrated it into Developmental-Behavioral Pediatrics training for pediatric residents and studied its influence on recognition, guidance and documentation in well child care visits.  My present interests revolve around exploring mechanisms by which the parent-child relationship may contribute to aspects of child health and behavior that are integral to the provision of comprehensive pediatric primary care. I am currently exploring whether there are pathways that include parent-child relationship quality that predict early childhood obesity. I hope  this research will lead to identifying families with children at-risk for early obesity who might benefit from early intervention targeting parent-child interactions, parental sensitivity to infant cues and, more broadly, parent-child relationships in lieu of, or in addition to, traditional interventions for obesity.


	1011314
Arthritis disorders, General orthopaedic conditions and problems, Injuries / fractures of the upper and lower extremities, Total joint replacement	1011512
Dr. McGaghie's research and scholarship address medical and health professions education, esp. skill acquisition and maintenance, outcome measurement, simulation technology, faculty development, and team science.
	1011521
As a clinical psychologist, I am interested in growth and development throughout the life span.  My clinical training has ranged from childhood to older adult development and treatment.  My publications focus on child therapy as well as childless older adult women.	1011552
Chemical pathology<BR><BR>

Atherosclerosis - the main cause of cardiovascular disease - is now understood to result from a chronic inflammation of large arterial blood vessels superimposed upon by hyperlipidemias, as well as other risk factors. PPAR - a transcription factor belonging to a sub-family of nuclear hormone receptors  functions in regulating the expression of multiple genes involved in metabolic and inflammatory processes. Using mice as the experimental model, the aim of our research is to determine whether pharmacological activation of PPAR in arterial cells, and the resulting expression of anti-inflammatory genes, can prevent, retard or reverse the development of atherosclerotic lesions.	1011559
Psychomatic Obstetrics and Gynecology and Women's Developmental Issues during childbearing years:  Psychological aspects of fertility, pregnancy, loss, parenting, aging, breast and gynecological cancer; pharmacologic questions regarding psychotropic exposure in pregnancy and lactation; hormonally mediated mood disorders.
Psychiatric care of medically ill patients.	1011587
Apinal oncology, Complex spine surgery, Deformity and reconstructive spine surgery, Rheumatoid diseases	1011595
Neuro-immune and bacterial mechanisms of bladder inflammation.
	1011618
Cardiovascular anesthesia, Thoracic anesthesia, Transplantation anesthesia	1011657
AIDS / HIV related, Breast cancer, Palliative Care	1011821
My two current intersts/areas of subspecialization are working with adults who have personality disorders (usually people in their 30s who are having trouble sustaining intimate relationships) and with couples.  I do both psychoanalysis and conjoint couples therapy.  My interest in the problems of couples has led to my creating and teaching an undergraduate course at Northwestern, "Marriage 101: Building Loving and Lasting Relationships."  I am a coauthor of a paper on how couples therapists and individual therapists can collaborate.  	1011822
At Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Dr. Slutzky sees both general neurology and epilepsy patients as part of the epilepsy centers First Time Seizure Clinic. In addition to his clinical responsibilities, Dr. Slutzky pursues research interests in neural prosthetics, specifically brain-machine interfacing (BMI).  A device that records signals from the cerebral cortex, decodes them, and uses them to control a variety of outputs such as a computer cursor, prosthetic limb, or electrically-stimulated muscles in a paralyzed limb, a brain-machine interface could allow a severely motor impaired patient (quadriplegic or locked-in, for example from ALS or spinal cord injury) to interact with his or her environment and potentially regain the use of a limb again. In addition, this technology provides a powerful new way to study normal in vivo brain physiology. Dr. Slutzkys ultimate goal is to refine BMIs to the point that they can safely and effectively be used in humans for long-term applications. He recently received a NIH K08 career development award to investigate different brain signal sources as inputs to a BMI. 	1011901
Woodruffs role in understanding inhibin fluctuation in the ovary led to questions about ovarian follicle formation and persistence, which provides new ways to think about fertility preservation for young women with fertility-threatening conditions (NEJM, 2009).  She examined the regulation of follicle function in vitro and established a collaboration with a biomaterial scientist, Lonnie Shea, to develop a 3-dimensional support system that would provide the necessary bio-integrity for follicle growth (Tissue Eng. 9:1013, 2003; News and Views in Nat. Med. 14:1178, 2008 and Nat. Med. 14:1182).  These studies have been very productive and the current culture system supports live births of mice. The system is being adopted to non-human primate and human ovarian follicles. She coined the term oncofertility to describe this work.  Finally, she has used physiological studies together with mathematical modeling to explore the kinetics of follicle formation and persistence in the mouse (Dev. Biol. 298:149 and Dev. Biol. 298:132). These studies reveal the necessary and sufficient nature of the initial follicle pool established in the ovary during the time of development (Nature Med, 14:1190, 2008). Hallmarks of Woodruff career have included a strong focus on ovarian biology, on interdisciplinary approaches to problems, and application of the overall health of women.	1011912
General surgical pathology	1011952
General diagnostic radiology	1012074
gross anatomy, histology, cellular electrophysiology, sinoventricular conduction system, muscular valvular apparatus, heart
	1012081
Pediatric anesthesiology	1012104
Comprehensive care of adults, Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Medical consultations	1012150
Lung surgery, Thoracic surgery	1012293
cytomegalovirus, latency, reactivation, allograft rejection, gene regulation
	1012336
cell-matrix adhesion, epithelial cells, pulmonary biology, mechanosignal transduction, hemidesmosomes, focal contacts, laminins
	1012450
child, adolescent, adult psychology.  Family and couples therapy	1012547
General obstetrics and gynecology, Ultrasound (obstetrics and gynecology)	1012560
Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma, Hodgkins disease, leukemia, stem cell transplantation	1012563
We are investigating the mechanism of reactive oxygen species (ROS) mediated apoptosis in myeloma and lymphoma. We are looking at both the intrinsic and extrinsic caspase system and the role of ROS in cellular signalling	1012563
Clinically, I predominantly treat inflammatory bowel disease patients where I specialize in the use of immunomodulatory therapies. On a research level, my lab is involved in understanding the mechanisms for colitis-induced colon cancer. We focus on regulation of intestinal stem cells using genetically altered mouse models and analysis of human biopsy tissue.	1012598
IBD - Inflammatory Bowel Disease
	1012598
Preventive medicine, Primary care internal medicine, Women's healthcare	1012615
Dementia, Internal medicine	1012787
Dr. Dalton has special interest in the mangement of prostate, kidney, and bladder cancers with an emphasis on robotic surgery. 
	1012808
I've had thirty years of experience as a psychiatric clinician.  in addition to my private practice I work in two community programs providing treatment to individuals with chronic and severe mental illness, Trilogy and Housing Options for the Mentally Ill in Evanston.
	1012834
HIV infection, viral hepatitis, antiviral drug development, global health research

	1013067
Principal Investigator, Northwestern AIDS Clinical Trails Group/NIH/NIAID.
Principal Investigator, Northwestern AIDS International Training and Research Program, NIH/Fogarty International Center.
Principal Investigator, Northwestern Strategy for Developing and Institutionalizing Global Health Programs, NIH/Fogarty International Center.
Nigeria Country Director (Harvard University primary grantee), President's Emergency Program for AIDS Relief, DHHS.
Clinical Director (David Kelso PI, Northwestern), Diagnostic point of care development,Gates Foundation.
Clinical Director (James Baker PI, U Michigan), Intranasal vaccine administration.   	1013067
I have developed a conceptual model to help patients who struggle with emotional and compulsive overeating understand the connection between their experience of stress and their lack of control over their eating. Understanding this connection helps motivate patients to focus on the cause of the problem rather than the effect, and to develop more effective coping strategies to overcome their reliance on food as a short-term coping mechanism.	1013078
We are using multiple myeloma as a model to understand the actions of glucocorticoids (GC) and the glucocorticoid receptor (GR).  Development of resistance to GCs remains a critical clinical problem which involves the loss of GR expression.  We are exploring post-transcriptional mechanisms to understand the loss of receptor expression.  In addition we are investigating new drugs for the treatment of myeloma.  We have discovered novel nucleoside analogs that are effective in both GC-sensitive and -resistant cells.  We are working on bringing these compounds to clinic.

	1013105
Coronary bypass surgery, Minimally invasive valve repair and replacement, Transmyocardial laser revascularization	1013131
Food Allergy: My interests include pathogenesis of allergen sensitization and food allergy, as well as research regarding current treatment and future interventions for food allergy.
Asthma: My interests lie in understanding the factors which contribute to inner-city asthma and its greater morbidity/mortality as compared to non-inner city populations.  I am especially interested in the relationships between allergen sensitivity, exposure and morbidity for cockroach, rodents and fungi.  I am also interested in psycho-social factors which contribute to the burden of asthma in this population.	1013138
I have a variety of research interests with most relating to abdominal imaging (GI/GU) especially abdominal MR and CT.  These include pancreaticobiliary and hepatic imaging and new evolving imaging techniques.
	1013310
Emergency Medicine, Hospital-based care of the medical patient	1013336
HIV infection, Sexually-transmitted diseases	1013371
Asthma, Hay fever, Idiopathic anaphylaxis, Sinusitis, Urticaria	1013382
I am conducting clinical research on chronic idiopathic urticaria and angioedema in collaboration with Marianna Kulka PhD who is a mast cell expert and has a mast cell line. We will attempt to elucidate the pathgenesis of the disease, identifying histamine releasing factor in the sera and also identifying mediators that may be released locally.  We will do this with a blister chamber that raises a small fluid filled blister.  We will identify cytokines and local mediators at the site of lesions and compare this with  unaffected skin.  We will also take biopsies of lesions.  We have IRB approval, have collected sera from several patienets and are recruiting for these further studies.

I am working with several faculty in GI and Paul Bryce, PhD on developing research in eosinophilic esophagitis.	1013382
Psychiatric Treatment of Adults/Older Adults; Depression; Management and Treatment of Patients with medical illness, dementia, or end-of-life issuers; assistance to families and caretakers of such patients.	1013524
Research interests include use of innovative treatment modalities for head and neck cancer in order to obtain better tumor control and decrease toxicity of treatment.
	1013622
Boyd Metzger, M.D. is the Tom D Spies Professor of Metabolism and Nutrition in the Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism & Molecular Medicine at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. 
Dr. Metzger obtained his undergraduate education at the University of South Dakota and earned his M.D. at the State University of Iowa. He was an Intern, Medical Resident and Clinical Fellow in Metabolism at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago and a Postdoctoral Fellow in Biological Chemistry at Washington University in St Louis. Dr. Metzger's memberships in professional organizations include: the Endocrine Society, the American Diabetes Association (ADA), the American Federation for Medical Research, the Central Society for Clinical Investigation and American Association for the Advancement of Science (Fellow). 
Dr. Metzger has had a career-long interest in the impact of gestational diabetes pre existing diabetes and states of altered nutrition during pregnancy on the intrauterine, perinatal and lifelong health of offspring. He has served on the editorial board of Diabetes and of Diabetologia and has been a member of the Organizing Committee of each of the four ADA sponsored International Workshop Conferences on gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) and Chairman and Proceedings Editor of the last two. He will serve in the same capacity for the upcoming fifth workshop conference to be held November 11-13, 2005. He has published more than 200 journal articles and book chapters. Currently, he is Principal Investigator of the NICHD/NIDDK funded Hyperglycemia & Adverse Pregnancy Outcome (HAPO) study. The immediate objective of HAPO is to establish the level of maternal hyperglycemia that is associated with a clinically significant risk of adverse perinatal outcome. It is hoped that future risks for obesity and metabolic disturbances can also be established through long-term follow-up.
	1013766
Diabetes mellitus, Thyroid disease	1013766
intensive care, respiratory failure, mechanical ventilation, chronic respiratory insufficiency, clinical pharmacology



	1013771
Blood group isoimmunization and other conditions requiring intruterine fetal transfusions	1013783
Evaluation and treatment of sports and musculoskeletal injuries	1013810
Upper and Lower Limb Prosthetics, Amputation Management

	1013835
Obstetric anesthesia	1013854
Comprehensive care of adults, Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Medical care of the patient with diabetes	1013880
Aneursyms, venous problems, Arterial disease, General vascular surgery	1014075
Eyelid and orbital diseases and surgeries, Lacrimal and reconstructive surgeries, Ophthalmic plastics / laser surgeries	1014076
Inpatient teaching attending at Jesse Brown VA; focus of teaching is hospital medicine and clinical problem solving	1014079
General surgical pathology, cytopathology, GI/liver, gynecologic pathology	1014121
diagnosis&treatment	1014287
Medical Education, Assessment of Medical Students, Clinical Skills Training	1014300
Diagnostic radiology, General radiology, Outpatient radiology	1014318
Dr. George Cybulski is a National Cancer Institute investigator in Radiation Therapy Oncology Group trials for treatment of malignant gliomas.  His primary clinical interests include surgical treatment of diseases of the spine, surgical treatment of spinal cord injury, surgical treatment of tumors of the brain (including pituitary tumors and gliomas) and spinal cord (including schwannomas and meningiomas).	1014350
My primary clinical interests are in the area of complex urinary tract reconstructive surgery in children with a special emphasis on hypospadias and the neurogenic bladder.  My basic science focus is on tissue engineering of bladder tissue and bladder smooth muscle physiology.	1014368
My clinical specialties include psychological aspects of women's reporoductive health including treatment of post-partum depression, infertility, pregnancy loss, and psychological aspects of breast and gynecologic cancer.  In addition, my clinical practice focuses on the treatment of anxiety and depression, individual and couples psychotherapy.
	1014483
The treatment of Head and Neck Cancer challenges the oncologic and reconstructive skills of the surgeon as no other. Only through an experienced team approach can the patients recieve optimal disease control and functional and cosmetic results that allow them to resume their occupational and social roles in society. This has been my passion for over twenty five years. 

	1014587
Health Services Research	1014614
Dr. Kundu's research focuses on the therapy of skin disorders that occur more frequently in individuals with skin of color. 	1014634
Cytopathology, Fine needle aspiration<BR><BR>

Cytopathology	1014824
Mood disorders, Psychopharmacology	1014856
Dr. McVary's primary clinical areas are prostate diseases, including prostate cancer and BPH, as well as the evaluation and treatment of sexual function. Dr. McVary has an active research laboratory that investigates the molecular mechanisms controlling the neural role in erectile dysfunction as well as the neural control of prostate development and function, and he is the principal investigator on two clinical trials studying medical and surgical therapies for prostate disease. 	1014857
Dr. Kopp's research focuses on various forms of thyroid disease. Principal areas of interests are the molecular genetics of congenital hypothyroidism and Pendred's syndrome. Pendred's syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by congenital sensorineural deafness, goiter and impaired iodide organification. It is caused by mutations in the PDS (Pendred syndrome) gene that encodes pendrin, an anion transporter belonging to the solute carrier family 26A (SCL26A). 

Other areas of active research include the molecular genetics of endocrine diseases such as neurohypophyseal and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, and the analysis of polymorphisms in genes involved in androgen metabolism in order to define determinants of steroid hormones and prostate cancer risk in men.

His clinical activities are primarily focusing on patients with thyroid dysfunction, thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer.	1015007
Function and growth of thyroid follicular cells. Thyroid cancer. Androgen action.
	1015007
Primary interest is to study innovative and cost effective ways for individuals with aphaisa to contiune to receive treatment beyond the acute stage	1015036
neuroreceptor, ion channel, neuropharmacology, neurotoxicology, neurophysiology, electrophysiology, alcohol, insecticide, anesthetic, Alzheimer's drug



	1015048
I work with both psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy, often combined.  Interests include depression, anxiety disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder, adult attention-deficit-disorder/attention-deficit-hyperactivity-disorder, and psychologic problems of persons coping with medical illness.
	1015071
Uterine Fibroid Embolization (UFE), Vascular and interventional radiology	1015091
Colposcopy, Hysterectomy, Teen pregnancy	1015113
Autopsy   Cytopathology   Surgical Pathology   Pediatric Pathology<BR><BR>

Pediatric tumors, cytology	1015205
aaaaaaaaaaa

	1015324
mechansims underlying cytotoxic cell granule mediated apoptosis	1015337
Surgical Education Research at the Undergraduate or Graduate level; Faculty Development; Resident Recruitment; Technical Skill Acquisition; Curriculum and Instructional Design





	1015340
Dr. Lurain's primary research interests are related to the clinical factors associated with prognosis and treatment of gestational trophoblastic diseases (hydatidiform mole, choriocarcinoma, and placental site trophoblastic tumor) as well as  uterine and ovarian cancers.. He has received research support from the American Cancer Society, the National Cancer Institute, pharmaceutical companies, as well as charitable groups, such as the Chicago Baseball Cancer Charities, the Cancer Research Foundation, the Stenn Fund for Ovarian Cancer Research, the Holly Missner Fund for Ovarian Cancer Research, the Kathleen Warble Foundation, the Cheryl Halat Memorial Fund for Ovarian Cancer Research,  and the Eileen M. Arder Fund for Endometrial Cancer Research.  Dr. Lurain is an author on more than 180 publications, including scientific articles, reviews, chapters, and books.



	1015350
Pain sensitivity & threshold in morbidly obese subjects, Sleep apnea and postoperative outcomes, Minimally invaseive surgery outcomes, faculty career development

	1015379
Associate Clinical Director of the Northwestern Scleroderma (SSc) Program,
Director of the Scleroderma Patient Registry and biorepository.  
	1015471
Pain medicine	1015529
Anti-thrombotic therapy, Atrial fibrillation, Cardiac stress testing, Cardiovascular critical care, Coronary heart disease, Ischemic heart disease, Nuclear cardiology

	1015570
My research interests are in the areas of antithrombotic therapy, particularly in the acute coronary syndrome patient, lipid management and reduction of cardiac risk, antihypertensive therapies, and nuclear cardiac imaging.	1015570
Echocardiography, Valve disease, Women's cardiovascular health	1015615
The assessment if valvular regurgitation using 2D and 3D echocardiography	1015615
Preschooler's behavior problems; 
Psychological interventions in pediatric primary care


	1015812
Spinal cord injury, rehabilitation, male infertility

	1015829
Professor Emeritus
	1016037
I have taught a 3 quarter course: The Opening Phase of the Psychoanalytic Process: Basic Concepts and Fundamental Principles from 1996 to the present in the Chicago Institute Analytic training program.

I have presented a series of symposia, The Reluctant Patient, to a number of mental health agencies in the Chicago area. 

I am a member of the American Psychoanalytic Association and the Chicago Psychoanalytic Society and serve as a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University.

My clinical focus is the psychoanalytic and psychotherapeutic treatment of adolescents and adults. 
	1016050
Dr. Carol Rosenberg serves as the Director of Preventive Health Initiatives for Evanston Northwestern Healthcare.
She is Chair of the Cancer Survivorship Program task force for Evanston Northwestern Healthcare.
Dr. Rosenberg is a lead investigator and writing group chair for the national Women's Health Initiative Study.
Dr Rosenberg is the founder and Director of the Living in the Future (LIFE) Cancer Survivorship Program of Evanston Northwestern Healthcare, for which she was awarded a Lance Armstrong Foundation grant during the program's implementation phase.	1016062
My primary research interest is in mechanisms of low bone density at diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in pediatric patients.  I hypothesize that dysregulation of mesenchymal stem cells in the bone marrow microenvironment leads to aberrant preference for adipocyte development over osteoblast development.	1016221
Glomerular diseases, Hypertension, Transplant Nephrology	1016296
Echocardiography, General cardiology, Prosthetic heart valve disease	1016299
Comprehensive care of adults, Preventive medicine	1016313
Voluntary psychiatric consultations.
	1016513
I am interested in all types of abdominal wall, incisional and inguinal hernias.
	1016521
Lipid Disorders, Cardiovascular Nutrition, Coronary Disease in Women, Premature Coronary Disease	1016527
Achalasia, Gallstones, GERD, Hernia, Laparoscopic cholecystectomy, Laparoscopic Heller myotomy, Laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication, Laparoscopic Splenectomy, Laparoscopic ventral hernia repair, Pancreatitis and Pancreatic Cancer	1016528
Myeloma Research, Stem Cell Transplant	1016555
Clinical treatment and translational research in Multiple Sclerosis, CNS Demyelinating disease, Neurologic complications of AIDS






	1016759
Family decision-making, protective services for the elderly, disability and public policy, community services evaluation
	1016762
Endoscopic ultrasound, Ulcer disease	1016763
General gastroenterology, colon cancer screening is a particular interest. In addition, acid peptic disease and gastrointestinal complications of NSAIDS. 	1016763
Acne, Chemical peels, Tumescent liposuction	1016768
Cataracts, Cornea disease, Cornea transplant surgery, Lasik surgery, Refractive surgery, Refractive surgery	1016805
NFAT, Calcineurin, Transcription Factors, Signal transduction, Gene Regulation, T cell activation, Th1/Th2, Adipogenesis, Cancer, Oncogenes	1016930
Dr. Lees research focuses on regeneration therapy of endocrine insufficiency. He uses gene therapy tool (Adenovirus and Ad/AAV hybrid vectors) for the directed differentiation of adult stem cells.  He is also currently interested in pre-mRNA splicing in human cancer cells. 	1016969
Gene tharpy, regeneration therapy,  endocrine insuffciency, diabetes, endocrine cell differentiation, endocrine tumor



	1016969
Minimally Invasive laparoscopic surgery and endovascular treatment of venous disorders
	1017008
Pediatric radiology,
Pediatric nuclear medicine,
Metabolic bone disease
	1017032
Dr. Avrams research interests include pharmacokinetics (PKs) and pharmacodynamics (PDs) of hypnotics, sedatives, opioids, analgesics, non-depolarizing neuromuscular blockers, chemotherapeutics, etc.  His major research focus has been the development and evaluation of detailed PK models of rapidly acting intravanously administered drugs from the moment of injection to serve as the basis for understanding the PK basis of interindividual variability in response to these agents, which often have low clinical margins of safety.
	1017036
Chorea, Dystonia, Essential tremor, Multiple systems atrophy (MSA), Myoclonus, Neuro-ophthalmology, Parkinson's disease, Progressive supranuclear palsy ( PSP), Tics	1017061
Comprehensive care of adults, Occupational medicine	1017082
Herpes Virus, HIV Infection	1017092
intercellular junctions, adhesion, desmosomes, adherens junctions, signal transduction, cell motility, skin disease, cadherins, cancer metastasis.<BR><BR>
I am interested in the regulation of the intercellular adhesive junction, the desmosome, during processes such as wound healing and morphogenesis. Currently my studies are focused on the plakin protein, desmoplakin, an obligate member of the desmosomal plaque, which mediates the interaction between the plaque and the intermediate filament network. This interaction with the intermediate filament network is required for maintaining tissue integrity, particularly those tissues undergoing large amounts of stress, such as the heart and skin. The importance of desmoplakin in maintaining adhesive strength is highlighted by cardiomyopathies and skin diseases, which result from desmoplakin mutations. Utilizing biochemistry and fixed and live cell imaging techniques we are analyzing the dynamics of desmoplakin during desmosome formation and the roles the intermediate filament and microfilament networks play in that process.	1017153
Intervention cardiology	1017219
Spinal disorders, Spinal reconstruction, Sports medicine	1017224
On-going involvement in medical education, particularly in the training of residents, but also medical students and fellows; also interest in faculty development.	1017234
Diabetic retinopathy, PDT laser treatment, Retina disease and surgery	1017247
I carry out clinical and basic research related to dizziness and vocal motor control.  My clinical research mainly concerns vestibular evoked myogenic potentials.  My basic science research mainly concerns mathematical modeling of feedback control of voice F0 and amplitude.

Clinically, I am the "dizzy doctor" at Northwestern, and see a large array of patients with inner ear disorders as well as more complex pictures. 	1017256
Comprehensive care of adults, Women's healthcare	1017340
Advanced laparoscopic surgery, In-vitro fertilization, Infertility
	1017341
nuclear transport, nuclear structure, nuclear pore complex, nuclear envelope, nuclear lamins


	1017499
General diagnostic radiology	1017506
Dr. Nadlers specific areas of interest include robotic prostatectomy, concentrating his efforts on outcomes of robotic prostatectomy patients specifically pertaining to erectile function and margin rates. He is also pioneering a technique of robotic partial nephrectomy, which avoids clamping the renal hilum to better preserve kidney function during robotic partial nephrectomy for renal cell cancer. He also continues to do work in the minimally invasive surgical management of complex kidney stones and renal pelvis tumors.	1017510
Perinatal pathology	1017531
I mainly work with adult individuals suffering from treatment resistant mood and anxiety disorders. In addition, I work with a number of patients with chronic pain issues. 

	1017687
Comprehensive care of adults, Preventive medicine	1017700
Within Medical Humanities, my interest is in the use of reflective writing in the education and professional development of physicians.   	1017700
Cancer prevention and screening, Primary care internal medicine, Women's healthcare	1017737
Neuropathology<br><br>

As a neuropathologist with principal clinico-academic effort in diagnostic surgical neuropathology, my research interest encompasses translational-collaborative  studies related to bio-predictive markers for adult diffuse-type gliomas.	1017743
My primary interest is the psychiatric care of the older adult with chronic or new onset mental illness.  My work includes providing consultations to  physicians requesting recommendations regarding the care of their older adult patients with mental illness.  Another focus involves teaching geriatric fellows, psychiatry residents and medical students in a biopsychosocial approach to the diagnosis and treatment of older adults with mental illness. I am also interested in developing interventions addressing the stigma of mental illness.	1017877
Comprehensive care of adults, Medical care of the patient with hypertension, Preventive medicine	1017968
Comprehensive care of adults, Medical care of business executives, Perioperative medical consultations	1017971
Oupatient Anesthesia, safety issues, preventative nausea and vomiting and preventive pain management.	1017983
cell migration, cell motility, cell adhesion, cytoskeleton, molecular motors





	1018009
pediatric practice-based research, prevention, lead poisoning, obesity, lead poisoning, tobacco addiction


	1018012
Acid-base and electrolytes, Hypertension; diabetic nephropathy, Nephrology	1018091
Dr. Batlle's research interests are in the area of acid/base and potassium physiology and pathophysiology, with special emphasis in the area of distal renal tubular acidosis. At the bench level, Dr. Batlle's research team is interested in examining the cellular and molecular events involved in the development of hypertension and nephropathy in patients with diabetes. His laboratory has taken a holistic research approach that incorporates modern techniques of molecular biology, cell biology, whole animal studies, and studies using cells derived from human subjects. The predisposition to the development of kidney disease in some diabetic patients is being examined at the level of cell cycle regulatory proteins using skin fibroblasts as a surrogate cell model.  More recent work is focusing on ACE2 and its interaction with ACE in animal models of diabetes.	1018091
Interests include experimental therapeutics for the treatment of genitourinary malignancies and skin lymphomas and cancers.  Immunotherapeutic and anti-angiogenic approaches remain a major focus for such diseases as renal cell carcinoma, melanoma and cutaneous T-cell lymphomas.	1018134
Current research focuses on investigations of the Physical Therapist Clinical Performance Instrument, mentoring of physical therapist students, balancing career and family choices in female physical therapists and physical therapist students, osteoporosis, and using online resources in patient and clinical education.	1018163
Asthma, Interstitial lung disease, Sarcoidosis, Tuberculosis
Airway inflammation, Eicosanoid synthesis and actions
	1018167
Metabolic bone diseases, kidney stones, hyperparathyroidism, glomerulonephritis, renal osteodystrophy	1018168
Chemical dependence, Medical / surgical psychiatry	1018220
Preventive medicine, Women's healthcare	1018341
Airway management
Education in airway management
Education in Simulation Research	1018377
Cross-sectional imaging of the body, CT angiography, Multislice computed tomography (CT)	1018454
Biomedical Ontologies, Informatics, Bioinformatics, basic and clinical data representation	1018461
My clinical interests include working with individuals and couples experiencing problems with communication, intimacy, sexuality, sexual functioning, and psychological or sexual aspects of reproductive health care; such as fertility, menopause, gynecological or urological disorders.  I also see couples for premarital counseling. 

	1018513
Comprehensive care of adults, Peripheral vascular disease, Preventive medicine	1018581
As Director of Gynecologic Endoscopy at Northwestern since 1995, I have developed an expertise in advanced minimally invasive surgeries including laparoscopy, hysteroscopy for conditions of endometriosis, fibroids, adhesions, tubal disease and ovarian cysts.  I perform laparoscopic total and subtotal hysterectomy, myomectomy, cystectomy and hysteroscopic removal of fibroids and adhesions.	1018597
As a member of the soft tissue sarcoma committee of the Children's Oncology Group (COG), my primary clinical research interest lies in the area of clinical trials for pediatric patients with soft tissue sarcomas.  I am study chair for a group-wide phase III COG clinical trial for rhabdomyosarcoma.  My primary basic  research interest lies in understanding the regulation and function of the GLI1 oncogene, as well as understanding the role of Hedgehog-GLI1 signal transduction in pediatric solid tumors.
	1018694
Our lab is interested in how the cytoskeletal protein tau is altered from its normal soluble state to oligomeric and fibrillar states.  We also are interested in aggregated tau's function in neurons and glia during the course of Alzheimer's disease and related tauopathies.
	1018729
In my laboratory we study the cellular and molecular 
mechanisms of immunopathogenesis of T cell-mediated central nervous system (CNS) demyelinating diseases, the 
chemokine regulation of cell migration and host responses to mucosal bacterial infection, and the role of chemokines in the migration of B cell lymphoma.  The laboratory employs two mouse models of multiple sclerosis (MS): Theiler's virus-induced demyelinating disease (a virus-induced model of MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) (an autoimmune model of MS). In particular, the laboratory is examining the chemokine and chemokine receptor biology of T cell, monocyte, and dendritic cell recruitment during CNS demyelinating
disease.  In addition, we are examining the balance between cellular and molecular mechanisms of oral tolerance induction and generation of mucosal
immunity/host defense to bacterial and viral pathogens.  Finally, the laboratory uses a model of murine B cell lymphoma to study the mechanisms of tumor cell migration to lymphoid and extra-lymphoid tissues. 
The approaches utilized in the laboratory are applicable to both the understanding of basic biologic mechanisms of 
disease progression and treatment of autoimmune diseases, enhancement of immunity to pathogens, and treatment of cancer.	1018731
Hospital-based care of the medical patient	1018819
neurophysiology, neurocomputation, neuroanatomy, signals, information, learning, plasticity, engineering, adaptation	1018857
Circadian Rhythms, Sleep, Aging, Phase Shifting, Light, Exercise, Melatonin, Circadian Rhythm Disorders, Sleep Disorders, Delayed Sleep Phase Syndrome
	1018864
clinical supervision,supervision,genetic counseling
	1018947
Clinical focus on the assessment and outpatient treatment of mood and personality disorders with a special interest in the psychological sequela of disorders of attention and non-verbal learning.	1019040
Carl L. Backer, MD is the A.C. Buehler Professor of Surgery, Division Head of Cardiovascular-Thoracic Surgery, and Surgical Director of the Cardiac Transplant Program at Children's Memorial Hospital in Chicago.  He is a world-renowned pediatric cardiovascular-thoracic surgeon.  Dr. Backer specializes in the surgical treatment of congenital heart disease in infants and children and also performs complex re-do procedures in adults.  His primary interests are:  adults with congenital heart disease, arrhythmia surgery, heart transplantation, vascular ring surgery, tracheal reconstruction, and pacemakers.  He has authored or co-authored over 180 refereed articles, 68 book chapters, and 4 textbooks.  He is the co-editor of the 2nd and 3rd editions of the well-known textbook, Pediatric Cardiac Surgery.  

His research incorporates over 40 years of database material from Children's Memorial Hospital.  Future research endeavors will focus on cardiac stem cell therapy for pediatric cardiomyopathies. 



	1019129
Interventional radiology; use of real-time ultrasound for vascular and inteventional procedural guidance, transplant interventions, tumor ablation, lymphatic system interventions, percutaneous biopsy, chest interventional procedures, biliary and renal interventions, TIPS	1019185
Cervical and lumbar degenerative disc disease, Spinal cord injury, Spinal disorders, Spinal reconstruction	1019312
Back pain and chronic pain, Brain tumors, Headache, Neuro-oncology	1019313
clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, drug effect, dose-response, blood volume, ICG, thiopental, intravenous anesthetics, antipyrine
	1019370
To be completed.

	1019437
Neural control of breathing, Respiratory rhythm generation, Reflex control of breathing	1019504
Osteoarthritis	1019546
Research and clinical interests include clinical trials for Alzheimers disease and other forms of dementia, frontotemporal dementia and primary progressive aphasia, changes in cognition associated with aging, rehabilitation of memory and other cognitive disorders. 

	1019577
Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, with emphasis on facial reconstruction, maxillofacial trauma, Surigcal correction of obstructive sleep apnea, implant surgery and reconstruction, third molar removal and orthognathic surgery
	1019636
Clinical Pharmacology, Colposcopy, Hysteroscopy, Laparoscopy, Medical termination of pregnancy, Medication use in pregnancy	1019664
My primary clinical interests revolve around neurosurgical anesthesia, management of the difficult airway, and the perioperative stress response and clinical outcome.	1019731
Communication in Medicine, Clinical Skills Teaching, Graduate Medical Education, general medical education
	1019792
Sinus problems, chronic sinusitis, sinonasal polyps.
Sinus and nasal skull base tumors.
Computerized image guided sinus and skull base surgery.
Intraoperative CT scanning.
Research:  Better diagnosis and treatment of chronic sinusitis.
Research:  Immunologic basis of chronic sinusitis.
Research:  Clinical and research trials - goal: improved diagnosis and treatment of chronic sinusits.
General otolaryngology. 	1019797
We develop single and multi-joint intelligent rehabilitation robotics to diagnose, treat and evaluate neurologicla disorders and musculoskeletal injuries, investigate reflex/non-reflex and dynamic/static factors contributing to impaired motor control, and study injury and compensation mechanisms of pathological knee conditions.	1019856
Primary care internal medicine, Women's healthcare	1019882
My main research interest is the elucidation of molecular mechanisms uderlying cell motility with particular focus on the motile reactions of cardiovascular cells such as vascular endothelial and smooth muscle cells and cardiomyocytes. Another interest related to previous one is to discover and design substances which affect cells motile reactions and which could be applied as the novel therapies to the wide range of diseases where the motile behaviour of cells is compromised. Additionally, my lab is interested in discovery of master genes of cardiomyogenesis that could be used to govern directed differentiation of precursor cells into cardiomyocytes for the sake of therapeutic heart repair.	1019972
Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum
	1020003
Mood and anxiety disorders, particularly pregnancy-emergent and postpartum disorders. Forensic psychiatry.
	1020163
Stem Cell Transplantation for Pediatric diseases
Minimal residual disease in leukemia
Neuroblastoma and its treatment
Stem Cell differentiation
Tumor vaccines.



	1020213
My work focuses on G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).  This large family of nearly 1000 receptors is responsible for critical signaling components in normal cellular physiology responses such as differentiation, chemotaxis, and apoptosis.  In fact, nearly half the drugs an the market today are directed at members of this important family of receptors.  I study how they signal to the cognate partner, the heterotrimeric G protein using novel tools (ie US patent
6,559,128) as well as other signaling partners such as arrestin.  A key part of my research is directed at allosteric modulators, compounds which can modulate GPCR signaling at a site distinct from the ligand binding site.	1020328
I am interested in the beliefs and behaviors that influence exercise and physical activity decisions of breast cancer survivors. Specifically, I am looking at fear as a barrior to activity and exercise.
Lymphedema, a co-morbility of breast cancer treatment, is another area of interest. I have studied exercise as a risk factor for development of lymphedema and quantitative methods of measuring lymphedema.


	1020334
Autonomic nervous system disorders, Electroencephalography, Electromyography	1020720
neurodegeneration, Alzheimer's disease, tau protein, immunohistochemistry, neuropathology, protein structure
	1020738
High risk pregnancies, clinical trials in pregnancy, thrombophilias and pregnancy, obesity and weight gain during pregnancy

	1020837
signal transduction, G protein-coupled receptors, ovary, receptor desensitization, phosphorylation,

	1020838
Brain tumors / neuro-oncology, Cerebrovascular disorders, Spine diseases	1020875
Diarrheal diseases, Tropical medicine	1020945
My clinical, research and teaching interests center around the treatment of breast diseases and more specifically breast cancer.  


	1020947
Preventive medicine, Primary care internal medicine, Women's healthcare	1021011
intestinal failure, liver transplantation, small bowel transplantation
	1021028
Infection Control, Antimicrobial Resistance, Data Mining, Infectious diseases, Medical Microbiology, Epidemiology, Emerging Pathogens, Biodefense, Emerging Diagnostics, Molecular Epidemiology
	1021035
Endoscopic surgery, Leiomyomas / laser surgery/infertility, Reproductive Surgery	1021074
Hematology, Hematopathology<BR><BR>
The objective of my primary research is to evaluate the relationship between bone marrow angiogenesis patterns in CLL, cytokine/vascular growth factors, and clinical course.	1021232
My primary area of research interest is clinical obstetric anesthesiology, including the effects of labor analgesia on the progress and outcome of labor, specific neuraxial techniques for labor analgesia, and post-cesarean analgesia.


	1021239
Islet transplantation, engraftment, tissue engineering, imaging

	1021275
Structural Genomics, X-ray crystallography, Protein-nucleic acid interactions

	1021319
Hepatobiliary Surgery, Living Donor Transplant, Pediatric Transplant	1021428
Adult congenital heart disease, Echocardiography, Valvular heart disease	1021446
Learning, Biophysics, Neurophysiology, Eyeblink Conditioning, Aging, Hippocampus, Alzheimer's Disease, Potassium Currents, Calcium, fMRI
	1021467
Hypertensive emergencies	1021469
parasitology, heart, autoimmunity, microbiology, pathogenesis, disease, tropical, pathology, cytoskeleton <br><br>
Molecular Cell Biology of Tropical Parasitic Diseases. Trypanosomes are single-celled parasites that cause human illnesses such as sleeping sickness and Chagas' disease. These organisms have complex life cycles involving both insect and mammalian hosts. The American trypanosome, Trypanosoma cruzi, is transmitted by reduviid bugs and evades the host immune response by penetrating host cells and differentiating into a form that replicates within the host cell cytoplasm. Transitions between the insect vector and the mammalian host are accompanied by complex morphologic and biochemical changes affecting virtually every part of the parasite cell. We are interested in the biogenesis of the mitochondria and flagella in these unique eukaryotic organisms, since these organelles are essential for cell survival as well as targets for the development of antiparasitic drugs. Pathogenesis and Treatment of Inflammatory Heart Disease. 20 million Latin Americans are infected with the American trypanosome Trypanosoma cruzi and approximately 30 percent suffer from Chagas' heart disease. We are testing the hypothesis that immune responses directed toward both parasite antigens and heart antigens (i.e., autoimmunity) contribute to pathogenesis and have developed a mouse model of infection that exhibits both features. Mice develop severe myocarditis several weeks after infection that possesses all of the key features of the human disease, including strong parasite-specific and heart-specific humoral and cellular immunity. The overall objectives of these studies are (i) to elucidate the mechanisms by which parasite infection leads to cardiac inflammation, (ii) to determine the mechanisms by which autoreactive T cells are induced to proliferate and cause heart disease and (iii) to develop novel, immunomodulatory therapies for the treatment of myocarditis.	1021653
Hepatobiliary Surgery, Liver Transplantation, Living Donor Liver Transplant, Pancreatic Surgery	1021673
am interested in human movement, particularly in areas of rehabilitation. Many of the projects that Im involved with focus on the biomechanics of able-bodied and pathological gait. Our goal is to better understand normal gait, and to use that knowledge to evaluate and improve the gait of persons who walk with prosthetic or orthotic devices. Results from our work may enable us to develop more functional lower-extremity prosthetic and orthotic components.

	1021715
Bone density testing, Musculoskeletal radiology	1021758
Coronary bypass surgery, Pacemakers, Valve repair and replacement	1021759
The research in my lab is centered on the espins, a novel family of multifunctional actin-bundling proteins, and the elucidation of their roles in the organization and function of the actin cytoskeleton of hair cell stereocilia and sensory cell microvilli. Espins are produced in multiple isoforms from a single gene. They are present at high concentration in the parallel actin bundle of hair cell stereocilia and are the target of deafness mutations in mice and humans. For example, the jerker mutation in the espin gene of mice causes recessive hereditary deafness and vestibular dysfunction accompanied by an abnormal shortening of hair cell stereocilia. Espins are also present at high concentration in the microvilli of taste receptor cells, solitary chemoreceptor cells, vomeronasal sensory neurons and Merkel cells, suggesting that these proteins play important, general roles in the microvillar projections of vertebrate sensory cells. Unlike other actin-bundling proteins found in the microvilli and stereocilia of vertebrates, espins are potent actin-bundling proteins that are not inhibited by calcium ion. In cells, espins efficiently elongate parallel actin bundles and, thereby, help determine the steady-state length of microvilli and stereocilia. Espins bind actin monomer via their Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome protein homology 2 (WH2) domain in vitro and in vivo andcan assemble actin bundles in cells. Certain espin isoforms can also bind phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate, profilins or SH3 proteins. These biological activities distinguish espins from other actin-bundling proteins and may make them especially well-suited to sensory cells.


	1021762
Glaucoma: surgical, laser, and medical treatment outcomes.
Low-pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study (LoGTS)
	1021800
General surgical pathology, GI / pancreatic pathology<BR><BR>

Experimental: Hepatocarcinogenesis in rats and mice: nongenotoxic models peroxisome proliferator-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. AOX null mice model of spontaneous hepatocarcinogenesis. Study of liver stem cells in rat pancreas. Experimental models of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. 

Clinical: Pancreatic tumors: evaluation of prognostic markers. Hepatic tumors: characterization of morphological, phenotypic and prognostic factors. Colonic tumors: characterization of carcinomas arising in inflammatory bowel disease.	1021859
My practice is limited to general obstetrics and gynecology with special interest in the menopause and premalignant conditions of the uterine cervix. 


	1021955
Complex Contraception, Family planning, Gynecologic care of women with HIV, Medical and surgical termination of pregnancy, Obstetric / gynecologic care  of disabled women, Colposcopy
	1021958
sexual function, erection, ejaculation, orgasm, erectile dysfunction	1021985
Aortic surgery, Maze procedure, Minimally invasive valve surgery, Ross procedure	1022091
Autopsy pathology, Liver and pancreatic pathology<BR><BR>

Our current work focuses on the molecular mechanisms responsible for PPAR action. Transcription of specific genes initiated by transcription factors/nuclear receptors is a complex process and involves the participation of multiprotein complexes composed of transcription coactivators. Coactivators contain one or more highly conserved LXXLL (L, leucine; X, any amino acid) motif for direct interaction with AF-2 (activation function 2) region in nuclear receptor.  Our laboratory cloned PBP, PRIP, PIMT, PRIC285 and PRIC320 using either yeast two-hybrid screening or by isolating receptor binding proteins and their identification by MALDI-TOF analysis. We are generating gene knockout mouse models to elucidate the role of these coactivators in the regulation of specific gene transcription. Our work demonstrated that the deletion of PBP, PRIP PIMT and PRIC320  genes in the mouse results in embryonic lethality, indicating that these are vital for development and they alter the function of many nuclear receptors and other transcription factors during critical developmental stages. Recent developments in the area of conditional targeted somatic mutagenesis have opened new avenues for analyzing the physiological functions of coactivator signaling in a variety of tissues and cell types during early development and in the adult.	1022350
Comprehensive care of the adult, Medical decision making, Preventive care	1022425
Bone Marrow Transplantation	1022554
Diabetes insipidus, Fluid and electrolyte disorders, Pituitary hypothalamic disease	1022576
Vasoactive molecules in the pathobiology of adverse pregnancy outcome, Receptors

	1022579
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis(ALS), Ataxias, Chronic inflamatory demyelinating polyneuropahty, Heridatary spastic paraparesis, Kennedy's disease, Muscular dystrophies, Neurogenetic disorders, Neuromuscular diseases, Peripheral neuropathies, hereditary and	1022677
Diagnostic mycobacteriology, Microbiology / infectious disease	1022758
Asthma, Emphysema, Chronic Bronchitis

	1022771
Our group is interested in studying the outcomes of educational strategies (including patient simulation) used for teaching critical care to medical students and interns.	1022771
Vascular health including aortic aneurysms,amputation prevention, critical limb ischemia, peripheral vascular surgery, and disorders of the veins (varicose veins and vascular malformations).
	1022774
melatonin, dopamine, neuropharmacology, melatonin receptors, signaling, circadian rhythms, depression, sleep, drug discovery, 

	1022800
Health services research related to disability and chronic illness; psychosocial aspects of disability


	1023189
Dr. Dyer conducts research that focuses on cardiovascular and nutritional epidemiology, particularly the role of nutritional factors in the development of high blood pressure and obesity; prevention and control of overweight and obesity in both adults and children; the development of empirically-based criteria for the diagnosis of gestational diabetes; and assessment of the impact of measurement error and regression dilution bias on associations in observational epidemiologic studies.	1023190
Relationship between employee health risks and medical conditions and direct and indirect medical, disability and productivity costs to an employer	1023212
Molecular docking, enzyme structure and function, structure-based inhibitor discovery, beta-lactamases, protein stability-function tradeoffs, enzyme evolution.

	1023232
HIV infection, HIV-1 Vpr, Viral pathogenesis, Cell cycle G2/M control, Viral oncogenesis, Anti-cancer therapy

	1023239
Clinical cardiac electrophysiology, Heart rhythm problems	1023356
Stroke recovery and rehabilitation especially in the area of upper limb motor control.  I am interested in the epidemiology of neurorecovery after stroke, genetic markers of recovery and cortical stimulation for motor recovery after stroke.
	1023528
role, of, nuclear, lamins, in, transcription, and, DNA, replication	1023562
Theoretical statistics, operations research, numerical optimization, behavioral medicine, health psychology	1023584
Dr. Sheehan is interested in community based, pediatric, injury prevention and youth development.
	1023591
Dr. Matsumura is a practicing vascular surgeon at Northwestern Memorial Hospital and is an Associate Professor of Surgery at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. He is board certified in Surgery with added qualifications in Vascular Surgery.  His clinical interests are centered on endovascular treatment of all aspects of peripheral vascular disease, including carotid stenosis, thoracic aortic disease, lower extremity ischemia, deep venous thrombosis, and abdominal aortic aneurysm.  His research interests are concentrated on clinical trials of endovascular treatment of carotid stenosis and aortic aneurysm. He is involved regularly in the educational curriculum of medical students, residents, and fellows at Northwestern, but also frequently participates in continuing medical education of physicians in practice.  He organizes several educational programs each year and has been involved in the endovascular training of physicians from more than a hundred hospitals around the world. He has published over 65 peer-reviewed articles, 35 chapters, and ten books. 

	1023744
My lab focuses on understanding discoordination of the upper limb after stroke, learning the involvement of brain plasticity in recovery, and developing novel neurotherapeutic training programs to enhance motor control of the upper limb even years after a stroke.  Additional research interests involve pharmacological interventions that seek to alter spinal interneuronal bias.
	1023778
collagen, nidogen, dystroglycan, extracellular matrix, basement membrane, axon guidance, cell migration, development, C. elegans


	1023834
Aesthetic surgery, Breast surgery, Reconstructive microsurgery	1023841
Hepatology - liver	1024002
fetal urology, hypospadias, reflux, urine infection, enuresis, hydronephrosis


	1024003
stress hypersensitivity, depressive disorders, genetic vulnerability, QTL, neuroendocrinology, hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal, emotional behavioral tests
	1024039
Pain medicine	1024043
Dr. Carter's clinical interests cover a range of urologic conditions.	1024091
intercellular junctions, adhesion, desmosomes, adherens junctions, signal transduction, cell motility, skin disease, cadherins, cancer metastasis<br><br>

Our laboratory is interested in the function and regulation of intercellular
junction molecules in desmosomes and adherens junctions that act to mediate cell-cell adhesion and attachment of the cytoskeleton to the cell surface. Defects in junctional components caused by mutation or post-translational modification result in a variety of pathologies ranging from skin and cardiac disease to cancer. In addition, junction-associated molecules are involved in non-junctional functions such as signaling in development and differentiation. The lab uses a multi-faceted approach to dissect the function of cadherins, armadillo and plakin family junction components including but not limited to collaborative atomic structure determinations, molecular genetics, live cell imaging and trangenic mouse approaches.	1024251
Polysomnography
	1024254
Laboratory research focuses on the genetic regulation and phosphorylation of contractile proteins during cardiac development and in ishcemic and stunned heart.	1024281
Antenatal diagnostic testing, Fetal anomaly, High risk pregnancies, Obstetric and gynecologic ultrasound	1024369
Psychosomatic Medicine; Depression and heart disease; Psycho-oncology; Stroke related mood disorder; Multiple Sclerosis related mood disorder; Mood disorders; Anxiety Disorders; Evidence Based Medicine as applied in Psychopharmacology 
	1024438
Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, child psychiatric epidemiology

	1024471
Circadian rhythm disorders, Insomnia, Nocturnal seizures, Parsomnias, Restless leg, Sleep apnea, Sleep disorders, Snoring and increased upper airways	1024477
pathophysiogy, stroke, spinal cord injury, spinal circuits,biomedical engineering, neural signal processing

	1024510
My research interest has been focused on pharmacology and biophysics of ion channel functions, which are either activated by voltage changes or mediated by ligand receptor binding.  Drugs of interest include, but not limited to, general anesthetics, local anesthestics, ethanol and drugs used to the treatment of Alzeheimer's diseases.

	1024642
to come	1024706
Signaling in Reactive Oxygen Species-mediated Apoptosis in Hematologic Malignancies. 



	1025014
Bleb leaks and wound revision;
Intraocular pressure testing methods;
Traumatic Hyphemas;
Glaucoma Drainage Devices, patch grafts, and 
complications;
Diode Cyclophotocoagulation

	1025760
Kidney / pancreas transplantation, Laparoscopic surgery, Living donor kidney transplant, Vascular access	1025764
To elucidate a cellular mechanism by which renal fibrosis progress and seek for potential therapeutic/preventive approach.
	1025933
Interaction of Sleep Disorders and Cardiovascular disease, CHF Disease Management
	1025958
Ambulatory anesthesia, Cardiovascular anesthesia, Thoracic anesthesia	1025998
Geriatrics, Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Preventive medicine	1026001
The role of PTH and thyroid hormone in cell proliferation
	1026219
neonatology

	1026346
Science outreach, scientific literacy


	1026364
At present, my research program focuses on assessment and rehabilitation of cognitive impairment in brain injury. Current funded projects include the following.
1) A clinical trial of a virtual reality treatment protocol for patients with brain injury.
2) Examinations of interventions for sleep disorders in patients with brain injury.
3) A study of the validity of instruments for assessment of brain injury and posttraumatic stress disorder.

	1026377
Body imaging, Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), Fast magnetic resonance imaging, Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), Neuroradiology	1026382
Blending an in depth psychological approach with appropriate psych meds, only as needed	1026394
Dr. Whitington is involved in translational research utilizing animal and cell-based models and molecular approaches to understand the immune mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of neonatal hemochromatosis and biliary atresia. He is also interested in hepatocyte "survival" cell signaling involved in nutrient sensing and fatty liver disease and in the protective response to cholestasis.	1026398
Interventional radiology
	1026399
Research activities of our group focus on two major clinical areas: musculoskeletal pain and bone.  In the area of musculoskeletal pain, the development and characterization of analgesic agents for the management of osteoarthritis has been a major focus for over the past decade.  We have helped design and implement phase 2 studies of many of the major classes of drugs currently in use, including NSAIDs, cox-2 selective inhibitors, opioids, topical analgesic agents and novel approaches to pain including antibodies to NGF (nerve growth factor) and other agents active on the peripheral nervous system.  In the area of chronic low back pain, our group has worked closely with Dr. A. Vania Apkarian in the Department of Physiology to describe and understand spontaneous chronic pain with a particular focus of the role of the cerebral cortex.  Current NIH-funded studies are evaluating the transition that occurs in some individuals who progress from acute to chronic pain in order to understand the changes that occur with the hope of eventually being able to modulate cortical activity to produce better clinical outcomes.

Bone loss is known to be a major problem for individuals with disabilities, particularly those who are not able to ambulate or bear weight normally.  Our group has initiated studies aimed at treating patients with acute spinal cord injury to attempt to maintain bone mass during their immediate post-injury period.  In those individuals with SCI who have already lost significant bone mass, we have undertaken a second set of studies aimed at evaluating approaches to increase bone mass in these individuals, using physical and pharmacological interventions.


	1026407
Research interests focus on the development and evaluation of new therapeutics for the treatment of osteoarthritis, osteoporosis and pain through clinical trials in phases I-IV.  These studies include both investigator- and industry-initiated investigations and are funded by NIH and industry sources.  	1026407
In vitro fertilization, Infertility	1026444
computational neuroscience, information processing, complex systems, neuronal code, systems neuroscience 
	1026447
I am interested primarily in school health issues and those that affect children and adolescents.
	1026461
Hand and upper extremity conditions (shoulder, elbow, forearm, wrist, and hand).	1026590
Primary research interests involve:  caregiver stress, psychosocial adjustment to chronic illness and disability, men's health, stroke and brain injury, aging

Clinical assignments include:  stroke, pulmonary rehab, brain injury
	1026870
Brain tumors / neuro-oncology, Spine diseases, Stereotactic radiosurgery	1026925
Utilizing minimally invasive techniques to treat spine disease including degenerative, trauma, tumor and deformity.  Development of new techniques to facilitate minimally invasive spine access.  Treatment of spinal cord injury.	1027058
Clinical microbiology, General infectious disease, Transplant infectious disease	1027156
Asthma, Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, Pulmonary embolism, Sarcoidosis	1027175
Dr. Budinger's laboratory is interested in the mechanisms by which oxidant stress activates signaling pathways in the lung. A particular area of interest is the mechanisms by which oxidants generated in response to exposure to airborne particulate matter air pollution activates signaling pathways in the lung that might contribute to particle related morbidity and mortality.	1027175
Mood disorders, Psychopharmacology	1027219
Obstetric, Gynecologic and Ambulatory Anesthesia
	1027224
My clinical research focuses on three areas:
1.  Hospital epidemiology
2.  Antimicrobial resistance, especially in    immunocompromised patients
3.  Emergency preparedness for emerging pathogens and those with bioterrorism potential. 	1027227
Opportunistic infections, Transplant infectious disease	1027227
My research focuses on sensorimotor control of the hand and its rehabilitation following neuromuscular injury, such as stroke.  Toward this end, my research group and I are pursuing three interdependent lines of research in the Coleman Hand Rehabilitation Laboratory: description of hand neuromechanics, quantification of the mechanisms of hand impairment following stroke, and the development of mechatronic devices for hand therapy following stroke.	1027396
Blood group isoimmunization, Fetal anomaly, Hypertension in pregnancy, Prenatal diagnosis	1027416
Movement Science, Balance, Aging, Parkinson's Disease, Functional Outcomes, Cultural Competence	1027425
Bladder drop, Gynecologic surgery, Laparoscopic surgery, Minimally invasive surgery, Special female pelvic surgery, Urinary incontinence, Urogynecology, Vaginal hysterectomy, Vaginal prolapse, Vaginal repair	1027426
The Bohn lab is developing gene and stem cell therapies in rodent models of Parkinsons disease (PD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Recent studies have focused on the neurotrophic factor, glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) which the group has shown slows the progression of dopamine neuron loss in rat models of PD.  This gene therapy is now being developed as a clinical trial for PD.  Studies of viral vector mediated gene silencing are also underway in an aim to target expression of alpha-synuclein, a gene linked to familiar forms of Parkinsons disease.  In addition, the lab is generating neuroprogenitor-like cells and neurospheres from rat and mouse bone marrow and determining whether this interesting source of stem cells can be developed as a novel therapy for PD.  Viral vectors harboring neurotrophic factors are also being made for studies aimed at reversing aging of dopamine neurons in rat hypothalamus.  The experimental approaches in the lab are multi-faceted and employ techniques ranging from making viral vectors to behavioral testing.  


	1027443
My primary clinical interest is to use minimally invasive magnetic resonance imaging techniques to guide and monitor localized treatment of tumors, especially for liver and pancreatic cancer. I have an active laboratory that has translated a number of developments from our animal lab to the clinical arena.
	1027447
Picture Archiving and Communication Systems
Display Systems for Medical and Image Information
Imaging Informatics
Integrating Medical Information Systems
Data Mining
Operational analysis
Improving workflow efficiency




	1027454
Autoimmune skin diseases, Non - melanoma skin cancer, Psoriasis	1027497
Diagnostic ultrasound, Fetal anomaly, High risk pregnancies	1027734
Research interests include neurodevelopmental correlates of craniosynostosis, quality of life for individuals with cleft and craniofacial conditions, and correlates of learning disabilities in children with cleft lip and palate.  I am part of a multi-disciplinary, multi-site research team that is following a cohert of children born with a single suture craniosynostosis and controls who do not have this condition.  With NIH funding, we have evaluated these children at diagnosis, 18 months, 3 years and are beginning a 7-year-old evaluation.  

Differences in facial appearance affect social and emotional development in children with orofacial clefts and other craniofacial conditions.  I am investigating the impact of these conditions, stigma, and quality of life.  	1027926
Dr. Cryns is an endocrinologist whose research focuses on the genes and signaling pathways that cause breast cancer. The overall goal of his research is to translate molecular insights into better therapies and prognostic markers for breast cancer patients. 	1027933
General Endocrine, Thyroid disease	1027933
Co-Director of Clinical Education Center:  Fostering innovative ways to improve clinical skills of our medical students and use of technology to enhance clinical skills.

Clinical Practice:  Diagnositic dilemmas, health promotion
	1027947
Comprehensive care of adults, Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Medical consultations and diagnostic dilemmas	1027947
I am a board certified pathologist with subspeciality certification in cytopathology. My primary intereststs are  gynecologic cytology, fine nedle aspiration of head & neck and breast, and general cytopathology. Advocacy for cytopathology and women in medicine as well as medical education are my other interests. I am active in organized medicine and have leadership roles in national and international cytopathology/pathology organizations. I teach at the local, national and international levels.



	1027951
cytoskeleton, myosin phosphorylation, self-assembly, cell motility, signal transduction
	1028063
Ancillary techniques, Cytopathology, Pulmonary pathology	1028321
Structural Biology, Protein Interactions,  X-ray Crystallography, SRP







	1028424
Nucleolus, nucleus, chromatin, nuclear structure and function, cancer, growth-regulations, signal-transductions,

	1028426
Care of adults with a history of childhood cancer, Preventive medicine	1028607
Genetic counseling; informed consent for genetic testing; medical decision-making, health care communication, ethics, specifically around areas of genetic testing and research. 


	1028619
Current research activity is focused upon the psychological functioning of children and adolescents with HIV infection/AIDS, risk behavior in adolescents with HIV exposure/HIV infection, and individual and psychosocial factors mediating HIV medication adherence. 

	1028771
Musculoskeletal imaging
	1029113
epithelial cells, membrane traffic, GPCR, arrestins, epithelial polarity, mucosal biology, mucosal inflammation, apoptosis
	1029130
I am broadly interested in medical ethics, especially ethical issues in pediatrics, end-of-life care, research on human subjects, transplantation, children with disorders of sex deveelopment, medical and surgical innovation, and conscientious objection by health care professionals.  My main clinical interests are in pediatric palliative and hospice care and parent support for difficult decisions under conditions of uncertainty.	1029137
Primary research interests are in adult and pediatric genito-urinary and CNS cancers including prostate cancer, Wilms tumor and brain tumors. The other areas of interest include development of novel therapies for recurrent tumors including prostate, brain and neuroblastoma. Radiosurgery, hyperthermia,intra-operative radiation therapy, brachytherapy, novel IMRT techniques and nanoparticle-mediated delivery of novel radiosensitizing therapy are areas of ongoing clinical and basic research.	1029164
Adolescent gynecology, Colposcopy, Menopause	1029324
My current research focus is on characterizing the signaling pathways that regulate endothelial cell behavior leading to the process of blood vessel development (angiogenesis).  In particular, I am interested in characterizing the role of the a4 laminin subunit, a component of the basement membrane of endothelial cells in blood vessel development.  I have previously demonstrated that a4 laminin contributes to angiogenesis by interacting with avb3 integrin and b1 integrin containing heterodimers.  I plan to further unravel the signaling mechanisms underlying a4 laminin dependent angiogenesis, to identify the critical phosphorylation events and to determine the role of apoptosis in the endothelial cell response to a4 laminin.  I am also interested in characterizing the signaling pathways that are involved in either enhancing or blocking the differentiation process of endothelial progenitor cells to endothelial cells.  Endothelial progenitor cells have been implicated in the development of new blood vessels during normal and pathological angiogenesis.  However, the mechanism and extracellular signals that initiate and regulate this process are poorly understood.	1029930
fluorescence microscopy, live cell imaging, endothelial cell, 3D vasculature development, hemodynamics.
	1030012
Dr Kuikens research group is working developing bionic technologies to improve the function of artificial limbs for people with very proximal amputations.  The main research focus of the lab is developing a technique using nerve transfers to improve of myoelectric prosthesis control called targeted reinnervation.  By transferring the residual arm nerves in an upper limb amputee to spare regions of muscle it is possible to make new signals for the control of robotic arms. This allows simultaneous control of multiple joints in a natural way.  The procedure has been very successful in patients with increases in speed of 50- 500%. Similarly, hand sensation nerves can be directed to reinnervate spare skin in or near the residual limb so that when this skin is touched, the amputee feels like their missing hand is being touched including light touch, graded pressure hot/cold, sharp/dull and vibration. This is an exciting pathway to producing true sensory feedback to amputees from their prosthesis.	1030041
I work with trauma and mental illness in children's mental health, juvenile justice, child welfare and education programs.  As Clinical Director of the Illinois Childhood Trauma Coalition we are focusing on developing a statewide system of care with appropriate professional development to address child trauma.  Within research, we are looking at children in the public sector who suffer from complex trauma and attempting to understand what treatments are effective with these children.  We are also engaged in supporting a movement to include a developmental trauma disorder diagnosis in DSM-V.

	1030273
Forensic Neuropsychology
Traumatic Brain Injury
Postconcussion Syndrome
Posttraumatic Stress Disorder
Violent Behavior

	1030626
Prostate cancer, angiogenesis inhibitors, PEDF, TSP


	1030644
CT, Image processing, 3D Imaging, Cardiac and Abdominal imaging


	1030765
Fitness, Nutrition and Weight Management, Medical care of the obese patient, Preventive medicine	1030810
Obesity, nutrition and lifestyle clinical care; clincal research in diet, body composition and weight mangement methods; and medical education in nutrition and lifestyle medicine	1030810
My primary research is in the field of biostatistics with particular emphasis in the areas of 1) longitudinal data analysis, 2) generalized linear and nonlinear mixed-effects models and 3) outcomes research as it pertains to survival analysis and causal inference.	1031011
Dr. Smith, who is a trained prosthetist, currently serves and has served as Principle Investigator on a number of research grants relating to the delivery of rehabilitation services and technologies to war wounded populations internationally. In particular he has been involved in the development and delivery of appropriate prosthetics and rehabilitation technologies and distance learning to land mine victims in low income countries. In addition, Dr. Smith has led the development and commercialization of a number of health informatics applications including store-and-forward telemedicine, personal health record (PHR) and clinical decision support (CDSS) systems.
	1031145
The focus of the work in my lab is directed towards the understanding of neuromusculoskeletal control during active movement in persons with brain injury.  In particular, studies seek to understand the control mechanisms underlying locomotor behavior in persons with post-stroke hemiplegia.  Related to this objective, the work is attempting to understand underlying mechanisms of poor control and to develop quantitative evaluation and intervention tools for the amelioration of locomotor deficits post-stroke.  The experimental approach includes measurement of electrical muscle activity, lower limb force and movement trajectories, and electro-physiological reflex testing during cyclical locomotor movements such as walking and pedaling.


	1031152
Clinical interests include diagnosis and treatment of kidney diseases, hypertension, acute and chronic kidney failure, and management of patients on dialysis.	1031187
My research focuses on spinal motor-system. I am interested in the interaction between pre-motor interneurons and motoneurons; the synaptic plasticity of motoneurons for peripheral and brainstem descending pathways; and the mechanisms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).  Using a root recording system I developed for mouse spinal cord study, I have demonstrated the existence of two forms of short-term plasticity in the spinal motoneurons in response to different source of synaptic inputs. Further studies in this direction will move toward the cellular level to understand their pre- and post-synaptic mechanisms.  In an animal model of ALS (mSOD1 mouse), I have found that NMDA receptors in the spinal interneurons might be an important component contributing to motoneurons' excitotoxicity. Further studies will apply intracellular recording and calcium image techniques to answer that through what ions, channels and/or receptors the interneurons interact with motoneurons in mSOD1 mouse in order to determine new therapeutic targets for this disease.
	1031304
My primary clinical interest is the field of Thoracic Imaging.  Within the filed, imaging of lung cancer and imaging of pulmonary embolism are particular interests.

My primary research interest at this time is lung cancer screening.  I am one of the Principal Investigators for the National Lung Screening Trial (NLST), an ongoing multi-institutional trial funded by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to try to determine if lung cancer screening decreases lung cancer mortality.  For more information on NLST, see www.ACRIN.org.

	1031423
Medical disorders of the breast, Woman's health	1031537
I have just written a book on psychiatry, "The Origin of Symptoms": cultural aspects, clinical intensive pschotherapy case studies, the brain, genetics overview ( review of journals), animal studies. My interests are pschoanalytic.	1031667
Lasik surgery, Ophthalmic plastic surgery, Refractive surgery, Refractive surgery	1031759
I am currently searching for new and innovative methods for incorporation in the teaching of residents and medical students. In addition to teaching the science and the art of medicine, it is incumbent upon us, as faculty, to lead the way in providing service to community and to those who are less fortunate.    

	1031800
Psychotherapy, child psychopharmacotherapy and school consultation.	1031839
Developmental Disabilities (Clinical)
	1031841
Dr Reids research interests are aimed at gaining a greater understanding of the relationship between the sleep and circadian systems with health and safety. Current research areas include, understanding the basis and treatment of circadian rhythm sleep disorders, the effects of sleep loss on performance and safety, and the relationship between sleep and risk for metabolic and cardiovascular disease.  Dr Reid also has extensive experience in the study of the impact of shift work on sleep, performance and health in the workplace. 
	1031869
Gynecologic infections, Menopause, Vaginal problems, Vulvar problems	1032015
Breast imaging, Digital mammography, Radial scars	1032035
neuromodulation, neurophysiology, dopamine, monoamines, patch clamp, basal ganglia	1032062
Biomedical signal processing, cardiac arrhythmias, computer modeling
	1032088
Interventional Oncology offers various treatment therapies to cancer patients using minimally invasive angiographic techniques and treatment options at various stages in cancer treatment. These treatments may be used alone, in combination, or in conjunction with standard of care cancer treatments such as chemotherapy and radiation, as a palliative treatment, or may be used as a bridge to organ transplantation	1032158
magnetic resonance imaging, cardiovascular imaging, technical developments, heart, interventional, coronary artery disease, oxygenation,contrast agent, angiography,perfusion
	1032326
Dr. Brian Helfand's clinical and research interests include prostate cancer, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), cell biology, and genetics.

	1032446
Integrin regulation of proteases in oral keratinocytes (special focus on urokinase receptor-integrin interaction and consequent intracellular signaling events). Effects of altered expression of proteases on tumorigenecity/invasion of oral cancer.

	1032461
Fetal Brain Injury, Oxidants, Neuroprotection, Cerebral Palsy, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome
	1032738
Acute coronary care, Coronary angioplasty, stenting, and atherectomy, General cardiology, Peripheral vascular interventions	1032739
Abdominal aortic aneurysms, Angio / stents, Endovascular, Extracranial cerebrovascular disease
	1032743
Cardiac electrophysiology	1032810
Body imaging	1032869
Cardiac rehabilitation, Echocardiography, Vascular biology	1032893
Integrated systems, Neuroanatomy, respiration, amygdala, basal ganglia, cerebellum, 

	1032940
Acute renal failure, Pre and end stage renal disease care	1032946
Glycolipid and cell behavior/skin cancers
	1033130
Dr. Hirano is Associate Professor of Medicine and Director of the Gastroenterology and Hepatology Fellowship Program at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.  He attended medical school at the University of Pennsylvania and completed his medical residency and GI fellowship at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He took a faculty position at Harvard Medical School working in esophageal physiology before coming to Northwestern in 1998. His academic interests focus on eosinophilic esophagitis and swallowing, motility,  and esophageal disorders.	1033185
Esophageal motility disorders, Gastroesophageal reflux disease, Swallowing disorders	1033185
informed consent in the clinical arena, health policy development, classificatory theory, medical education and patient safety research	1033359
Building And Re-Building Of Limbs And Hearts. The Simon Laboratory has identified regulartory genes that play key roles in limb development in virtually all vertebrates, including humans. Surprisingly, these genes are also critical for the shaping of the heart during embryogenesis and when mutated in humans, they lead to birth defects of the arms and heart. Using zebrafish, chicken, and mouse models, the lab tries to gain a deeper understanding of common genetic pathways in limb and heart development and disease. In addition to these developmental studies, the lab is interested in discovering the genes that are involved in regenerative processes. As models for these investigations, zebrafish and newts are employed, which can regenerate limbs and heart ventricles throughout their life times. The identification of genetic pathways that are operational in these regenerating species but not in mammals, will provide new insights how to restore regenerative abilities in non-regenerating species including humans.	1033423
Critical care medicine	1033524
Acquired and hereditary polyneuropathy, Muscle disease, Myasthenia gravis, Electrophysiology in peripheral nervous system diseases.	1033629
biomedical communications, biomedical policy, biomedical literacy, health literacy, scientific literacy, cancer communications, public health communications, information technologies, multivariate analysis


	1034109
Our group seeks to elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which human prostate cancer cells regulate motility (and thus ultimately metastasis), to identify new drugs which target regulatory elements, and to evaluate their efficacy in humans.  Studies employ basic cell and molecular biology based investigations, animal models of metastasis, and early phase clinical trials involving cell and molecular based endpoints.  A central focus is upon the role of transforming growth factor beta (TGFb) associated signaling members.  Through these studies we have been able to link TGFb super family receptors, Smad proteins, members of the p38 MAP kinase signaling pathway, small heat shock proteins (in particular, HSP27), and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), into an inter-linked regulatory network within the cell, which together regulates cell motility, invasion, and metastasis.  We have identified a lead compound that effectively blocks activation of the key regulatory elements.  Our lead compound inhibits metastasis in murine orthotopic models, was well tolerated in human phase I trials, and demonstrates mechanistically relevant cell and molecular efficacy in phase II human trials.  	1034453
Phase 1 & 2 clinical trials, Prostate cancer	1034453
Dr De Plaens research focuses on the developmental aspects of the inflammatory mechanisms contributing to necrotizing enterocolitis, a devastating disease of the premature infant, causing sudden bowel inflammation and necrosis.  
	1034616
A major pediatric research priority and the long-term goal of my laboratory is the identification of the etiology and pathogenesis of Kawasaki Disease (KD), the leading cause of acquired heart disease in children in developed nations. KD can result in coronary artery aneurysm (CAA) formation with resultant myocardial infarction and/or sudden death. Clinical and epidemiologic data are consistent with an infectious cause of KD, but conventional methods have not yielded the etiologic agent. We discovered that oligoclonal IgA plasma cells, CD8 T lymphocytes, and macrophages infiltrate CAA and other tissues in acute KD, indicating an antigen-driven response to an intracellular pathogen, such as a virus, with a mucosal portal of entry. We made oligoclonal KD antibodies in vitro and used them as tools to identify their target antigens. Immunohistochemistry revealed that KD synthetic antibodies detected antigen in acute KD but not control bronchial epithelium and in a subset of macrophages in acute inflamed KD tissues. In acute KD ciliated bronchial epithelium, antigen localized to distinctive perinuclear intracytoplasmic spheroids. Light and electron microscopy revealed that the spheroids in ciliated bronchial epithelium were cytoplasmic inclusion bodies (CIB). The CIB were most consistent with aggregates of protein and associated nucleic acid and likely derive from the KD etiologic agent. These data support the hypothesis that the KD agent enters via the respiratory tract, infects bronchial epithelium, and travels in macrophages to targeted tissues including coronary arteries, with antigen-specific IgA plasma cells and other inflammatory cells entering the tissues to combat the pathogen and resulting in tissue damage. The presence of CIB consistent with aggregates of microbial, likely viral, proteins and nucleic acids in acute KD lung provides a structural and molecular footprint that could lead to identification of the KD etiologic agent.

	1034656
<BR><BR>

My research work is focused on studying the mechanisms that regulate the transcriptional activities of nuclear receptors. Nuclear receptors constitute a large superfamily of transcription factors that regulate a diverse array of biological processes, including development and neoplasia, as well as energy and xenobiotic metabolism. In order to initiate transcription, some more factors are required to interact with nuclear receptors and to regulate their activities. These factors are collectively called "nuclear receptor co-factors". Several co-factors have been identified by our studies. Generating mouse models using gene targeting technology to investigate the functions of these genes is in process.	1034762
retrovirus replication, reverse transcription, integration, virus assembly mechanisms, molecular genetics






	1035505
Primary Research Interest: Gene Regulatory and microRNA networks during neural tube development

Clinical Research Interest: Biomarker discovery and validation in Spina Bifida.
	1035506
Dr. Holly Falk-Krzesinski is the Director of the Office for Research Development.  In this position, Dr. Falk-Krzesinski and her team support and advance faculty research and the Northwestern‚¨"s collective research enterprise through strategic alignment of vision, priorities, capabilities, and opportunities to enable pursuit of large, multi- and interdisciplinary research initiatives that garner national and international recognition.  Dr. Falk-Krzesinski specifically focuses on life and biomedical sciences initiatives and works closely with five of the research schools: arts & sciences, engineering, communication, education & social policy, and medicine.  As Director, Office for Research Development, Dr. Falk-Krzesinski has successfully catalyzed and fostered a number of major multi- and interdisciplinary research projects:
‚¨¢	The NIAID-funded contract award for a large-scale Structural Genomics Center of Infectious Diseases is a Center that applies state-of-the-art high-throughput structural biology technologies to experimentally characterize the three-dimensional atomic structure of targeted proteins from pathogens in the NIAID Category A-C priority lists and organisms causing emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases.  The Center provides a high throughput pipeline for structure determination that will carry out all steps of the process from target selection through structure deposition and will determine over 375 structures during the five-year period of the contract.  This initiative strengthened the partnership with the Advanced Photon Source and structural biologists at Argonne National Laboratory.
‚¨¢	The NCI-funded Nanomaterials for Cancer Diagnostics and Therapeutics Center for Cancer Nanotechnology Excellence (CCNE) that advances nanotechnology as a critical driver of advances in oncology and cancer research leading to near-term benefits for patients. The new Center capitalizes on the very strong partnership between the University‚¨"s International Institute for Nanotechnology and the medical school‚¨"s Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center. 
‚¨¢	The Oncofertility Consortium: Fertility Preservation for Women, a program through the NIH Roadmap for Medical Research Interdisciplinary Research Consortium initiative.  The inter-institutional consortium is a framework into which new discipline of oncofertility will be fostered  to create new knowledge about the process of ovarian follicle development and provide the medical solution to fertility preservation for women with a fertility-altering cancer diagnosis.
‚¨¢	The Regenerative Medicine Training Program, an interdisciplinary research training program of the NIH Roadmap for Medical Research Training for a New Interdisciplinary Workforce initiative.  The training program is for pre- and postdoctoral trainees and provides integrated training in the physical sciences, life sciences, and engineering with the goal of creating a new generation of scientists in regenerative medicine who can focus on overcoming the obstacles to developing techniques for repairing or regenerating damaged tissues and organs. 
‚¨¢	Participated as a co-organizer and engaging Northwestern faculty to participate in the regional partnership to bring university and industry research together: Catalyzing Collaboration between Industry and Academia in the Life Sciences‚¨Neurodegenerative Medicine, Regenerative Medicine/Stem Cell Biology, and Women‚¨"s Health Research.
‚¨¢	The NIDDK-funded NIH Islet Cell Resource as the lynchpin activity of the Chicago Islet Consortium, which Northwestern University, the University of Chicago, and the University of Illinois at Chicago comprise.  The overall goal of the Resource is to advance the field of human islet isolation for basic research and clinical transplantation.&.TRUNCATED	1035648
Strategic initiatives, interdisciplinary, partnerships
	1035648
Traumatic Brain Injury, Outcomes, Measurement, Assistive Technology
	1036098
Our laboratory investigates the pathogenesis of the gram-negative bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa.  We focus on this organism's type III secretion system, an apparatus that injects toxins directly into host cells.  A second interest is the identification of novel virulence determinants.  Our studies utilize a broad range of approaches, including molecular and cellular techniques as well as animal models and epidemiologic studies on human populations.	1036119
My primary clinical and research interests lie in pediatric body imaging, especially CT and MRI with a specialty interest in cardiovascular imaging.
	1036144
Rheumatoid arthritis, Scleroderma, Systemic lupus, Vasculitis, Wegener's Granulomatosis	1036213
Diagnostic ultrasound (obstetrics and gynecology), Fetal anomaly, High risk pregnancies	1036243
Dr. Epsteins laboratory is engaged in the study of the impact of viral infections on the developing nervous system.  Currently we are investigating the role of Human Herpesvirus 6, and 7 (HHV-6 and HHV-7) as potential causes of hippocampal injury during febrile status epilpepticus (FSE).  Dr. Epstein is a co-investigator and the study neurovirologist for the five year NINDS funded multicenter longitudinal FEBSTAT study of  200 children with FSE.   To date we have found that HHV-6B is the most common cause of FSE in children accounting for nearly 25% of the infants that present with FSE.  This longitudinal study will allow us to determine if FSE caused by HHV-6B or HHV-7 is more likely to result in mesial temporal sclerosis and temporal lobe seizures.  Intractable temporal lobe seizures are the most common reason for epilepsy surgery in adolescents and young adults.   If  HHV-6B or HHV-7 prove to be responsible for hippocampal damage it is possible that the injury could be prevented by treatment with anti-viral or anti-infammatory medications at the time of presentation with FSE.  
	1036557
Acute lung injury and the impact of mechanical ventilation on the injured lung have been a central focus of my laboratory work.  Particular attention to free radical production and inflammation are important are of interest.  The impact of critical illness on the metabolic response of young children has been a persistent interest of mine.	1036558
Complex dermatological cases, Cutaneous infectious disorders, General dermatology	1036593
Chemical pathology<BR><BR>

Plasma lipoprotein metabolism and the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.	1036661
Breast cancer, General Oncology	1036691
Placenta, Perinatal outcomes, Hypoxia, Angiogenesis
	1036692
Benign hematology, Disorders of thrombosis and hemostasis
	1036702
Cell signaling and breast cancer progression;
Molecular staging of breast cancer;
Fertility preservation for young patients with cancer;
Impact of fertility treatment on mammary gland 
	1036707
Colon cancer, Esophagus cancer, Gastric cancer, Hepatocellular cancer, Pancreas cancer, Rectal cancer	1036743
Specializing in the non-operative management of musculoskeletal conditions, joint injections, spinal injection.  Research interests include outcomes of spinal injections 




	1036746
Hepatitis, HIV	1036771
Swallowing Disorders, GERD, Surgical complications and General GI
	1036775
High Fidelity Simulation, Virtual reality, Advanced Technologies in Medical Education	1036779
Cardiac imaging, Diabetes mellitus, Kidney failure	1036796
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging	1036807
Research in the noninvasive clinical utility of cardiac magnetic resonance and nuclear cardiology in the treatment, diagnosis and management of patients with cardiovascular disease.	1036807
Incontinence, Neurogenic bladder, Complex voiding dysfunction, Pelvic reconstruction

	1036812
We are involved in a variety of bimomechanical research projects in order to compare and optimize the biomechanics of fracture fixation. I am also collaborating with Sam Stupp at IBNAM looking at ways to enhance bone regeneration in a traumatic defect animal model using nanotechnology.	1036816
Critical care medicine	1036821
My  interests include defining the non-medical influences that may be affecting obstetrical decision making, specifically as it applies to late preterm birth.  

Another set of projects are within the Children's Hospital Neonatal Consortium (CHNC), an organization dedicated to improving care and outcomes for infants in Childrens Hospital NICUs through sharing of data, information  and ideas for benchmarking, research, and development of safety and quality improvement initiatives.  These projects are underway in close collaboration with Child Health Corporation of  America (CHCA)	1036822
Allergic rhinitis, Angioedema, Asthma, Drug allergy, Idiopathic anaphylaxis, sinusitis, Urticaria
	1036826
My main research interest is in the subject of chronic rhinosinusitis.  Chronic rhinosinusitis is one of the most common medical condition seen in the U.S.  We are currently investigating the role of Staphylococcus aureus in the pathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis.  We have demonstrated the presence of IgE allergic antibody in the serum of patients' with chronic rhinosinusitis.  We have also implied a superantigen  effect in the pathogenesis of nasal polyps by demonstrating clonal expansion of staphylococcal toxin specific T cell receptor (TCR) V-b domains in the polyp lymphocytes of individuals with chronic rhinosinusitis and nasal polyps.	1036826
My primary research interests are in translational efforts in GI oncology. 	1036839
Please visit our Sinus & Allergy Center website.
www.northwestern-sinus.com	1036841
Chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, Dementia, Mobility impairment and falls	1036853
Electroencephalography, Epilepsy, Seizure disorders	1036859
General urology, Laparoscopic surgery, Renal surgery, Urethral Strictures	1036916
Management of thyroid cancer, its recurrence process and associated neck dissection and advanced thyroid cancer with special interest in young adults.	1036974
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic Purpura, Tissue factor & cancer-related thrombosis	1037005
I am a general Pediatrician who sees children from birth through college.  I have a clinical interest in breastfeeding and also in allergies, eczema, and asthma.  I speak Polish.  
	1037049
Asthma and allergic diseases in the elderyly-project studied how to empower low income elderly patients to obtain appropriate asthma care.

Role of innate immunity in asthma exacerbations: project involves measuring innate immune markers in asthmatics with high and low frequency of exacerbations.	1037051
Asthma, Hypersensitivity pneumonitis, Urticaria	1037051
Stem cell regulation in diabetic nephropathy

	1037113
Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Medical consultations, Primary care internal medicine	1037160
Using enhancements in interdisciplinary teamwork to reduce adverse events in the hospital. 	1037160
Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS), ERCP	1037226
Aestetic-cosmetic, Breast surgery, Eyelid, Oculoplastic, Orbit reconstrunction	1037232
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, Left ventricular hypertrophy, Nuclear Cardiology	1037261
My clinical interest is the diagnosis and management of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and my research interest is the application of noninvasive imaging techniques such as cardiac MRI to HCM and the evaluation of their utility in risk stratification for sudden death/ adverse outcomes in HCM.	1037261
Clinical Interests:  Cerebrovascular Surgery, Skull Base Surgery, Interventional Neurosurgery.

Research Intesrests:  Outcome studies in vascular neurosurgery and stroke, Vascular biology of braina neurysms and arteriovenous malformations, Imagaing of neurovascular diseases and brain ischemia	1037262
General gastroenterology	1037264
The majority of my clinical research spans the areas of type 2 diabetes in youth, insulin resistance, metabolic syndrome and polycystic ovary syndrome.  My research explores both pathophysiology as well as treatment options. 

I am also involved in TrialNet, a national consortium exploring avenues to prevent type 1 diabetes.
	1037282
Rheumatoid arthritis pathophysiology, cytokine biology,
inflammatory arthritis, general rheumatology

	1037296
Abnormal uterine bleeding, Adolescent health, Annual gynecological examinations, Menopause and menopausal symptoms, Minimally invasive treatment options, Osteoporosis and bone health, Uterine fibroids	1037308
Neuroradiology	1037345
My clinical interests encompass the Genitourinary malignancies including kidney cancer, bladder cancer, prostate cancer, penile and testis cancer with special interest in kidney cancer. My primary research interests involve translational applications of novel nanotechnology in the genitourinary cancers.
	1037363
regional: peripheral nerve blocks, transverse abdominus plane block, continuous peripheral nerve catheters

obstetrics: epidural anesthesia, risk factors for postpartum hemorrhage	1037374
General neurosurgery, Neuro-oncology, Spine disease	1037428
Interventional Cardiology	1037482
Dr. Rinella's research interests primarily include non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).  She is engaged in both laboratory and clinical investigation of the pathophysiology of these diseases.  Her patient oriented research focuses on new treatments and understanding the factors responsible for the progression of NASH.	1037512
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for autoimmune diseases. stem cell based therapy for incurable diseases. gene and immune therapy for malignancies.	1037526
stem cell based therapy and stem cell transplantation for non-malignancies.	1037526
Critical Care Medicine	1037532
Benign breast disease, Breast cancer surgery	1037537
I am interested in understanding the mechanisms leading to newborn brain injury, especially preterm brain injury. My research focuses on the impact of hypoxia-ischemia on the development of cells of the oligodendroglial lineage.


	1037549
1.  Evaluation of Resident Physicians in their  performance of Internal Medicine Procedures using simulation

2. Congestive Heart Failure
Outcomes at discharge and congestion relief
	1037573
Hospitalist Medicine, Infectious Diseases, Medical Ethics / Religion, Nephrology, Patient-Physician Relationship
	1037573
Dr. Flaherty is an Assistant Professor of Medicine in Interventional Cardiology.  His clinical interests include coronary and peripheral intervention, PFO and ASD closure, heart failure, valvular heart disease, cardiac CT angiography and critical care.  His research interests include coronary revascularization in patients with heart failure and diabetic patients with coronary artery disease.  In 2008, he was recognized as the Teacher of the Year in the Division of Cardiology.

Dr. Flaherty is board certified in Internal Medicine, Cardiovascular Disease and Interventional Cardiology.  Prior to joining the faculty in 2006, he completed residency and fellowship training at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.  He received additional training in Left Main Coronary Artery Stenting in Seoul, Korea.  He was graduated with honors from the State University of New York at Buffalo School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences in 1999.   	1037583
Perioperative Pulmonary Disease Management, Aneurysmal Subarachnoid Hemorrhage, Mechanical Ventilatory Support	1037662
I am interested in Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine, especially congenital cardiac defects and their management. I am also interested in the use of computers in medicine related to improving efficiency and quality in clinical medicine. 	1037673
Airway Stenosis, Chest Wall and Mediastinal Tumors, Esophageal Cancer, Lung Cancer, Minimally Invasive Thoracic Surgery	1037769
I have a busy clinical cardiology practice in Glenview and Evanston as well as teaching responsibilities at Evanston and Glenbrook Hospitals.	1037813
Abdominal and thoracic aneurysm repair, Carotid angioplasty and stenting, Endovascular surgery
	1037814
Dr. Eskandari is a vascular surgeon at the Bluhm Cardiovascular Institute of Northwestern Memorial Hospital with a special interest in endovascular surgery and stent technology. He is also an associate professor of Surgery and Radiology, co-director of the Northwestern Endovascular Center, director of Carotid and Peripheral Artery Interventions, assistant director of the Blood Flow Laboratory and is on staff at Evanston Hospital. Dr. Eskandari has a special interest in carotid stenting. He developed the Carotid Stent Program at Northwestern Memorial and is the site principal investigator for the National Institutes of Health-sponsored CREST trial comparing carotid stenting with endarterectomy. He also specializes in abdominal and thoracic aneurysm repair. 

An associate professor at Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine, Dr. Eskandari has educational experience as an instructor for both the Resident Core Curriculum and the Scientific Basis of Medicine course. He has served on the faculty of Northwestern University's annual Vascular Surgery Symposium, the Midwestern Vascular Surgical Society's endovascular training course, and the Vascular Interventional Advances peripheral vascular interventions course. He is also course director for several national carotid stent and thoracic stent graft training programs. 

Dr. Eskandari currently serves as Northwestern's primary investigator for four trials investigating the use of stent grafts in the treatment of thoracic and abdominal aortic aneurysms. He is the Northwestern Vascular Surgery Fellowship Program Director and serves as the director of the Department of Surgery Morbidity and Mortality Conference. 

His bibliography includes 55 peer-reviewed manuscripts, 17 book chapters, and over 60 international presentations. In addition, he has received three awards for excellence in research endeavors and is the recipient of the Lifeline Foundation's Wylie Traveling Fellowship. 

Dr. Eskandari serves as reviewer for Journal of Endovascular Therapy, Journal of Vascular Surgery, Journal of Vascular and Interventional Radiology, Journal of the American Medical Association, Expert Opinion on Therapeutic Targets and Future Cardiology. He is associate editor for the Yearbook of Vascular Surgery and on the editorial board the Journal of Endovascular Therapy. 

He currently sits on the Society for Vascular Surgery Practice Guidelines Committee, and is a representative to the Intersocietal Commission for the Accreditation of Computed Tomography Laboratories for the Society for Vascular Surgery. Dr. Eskandari also serves on several quality management and leadership committees for Northwestern Memorial Hospital. 

Dr. Eskandari completed his undergraduate and medical schooling at the University of Michigan. He completed his general surgery residency at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and his vascular fellowship at Northwestern University Medical School in 1999. He is board certified in general surgery and vascular surgery. 
	1037814
Skin Cancer, Facial Aging	1037905
Research is primarily concerning food allergy, but clinical interests also include asthma, atopic dermatitis (eczema), and allergic rhinosinusitis.	1037926
My primary areas of research interests and clinical expertise are psychiatric and cognitive problems of children with epilepsy and other neurological disorders, as well as diagnosis and treatment of psychogenic non-epileptic seizures.  I have developed multidisciplinary clinical service model to provide effective comprehensive treatment for children suffering from comorbid neurological and psychiatric illnesses.  This clinical program provides guidance and assistance in their transition to adulthood. It also offers a unique training environment for fellows in child psychiatry and neurology. 	1037928
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), Coronary CT angiography, Cardiac CT, CT angiography, Vascular and interventional radiology

	1037962
Otolaryngology, Surgery, sinus, Surgery, voice, Voice disorders
	1038130
Characterization and evaluation of children with pulmonary hypertension; characterization and evaluation of neonates with critical cardiac disease.
	1038180
Advanced laparoscopic procedures, Gastroesophageal reflux disease, Inguinal hernias, Laparoscopic Anti-Reflux Surgery, Laparoscopic Bariatric Surgery, Laparoscopic Heller Myotomy	1038351
Asthma, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), Interstitial lung disease	1038505
Dr. Robert E. Brannigan's clinical concentration is male reproductive medicine and surgery. His primary research focuses on fertility preservation in male patients with cancer.
	1038702
Currently my research focuses on the development and validation of magnetic resonance imaging techniques for optimal delivery and functional guidance of minimally invasive therapies, early prediction of therapy response, and non-invasive staging of carcinogenesis. My most recent efforts are focused on the development of imaging methods for primary and metastatic tumors of the liver. Our group deliberately emphasizes a bench-to-bedside translational approach to research. Working closely with a multi-disciplinary group of clinical collaborators, methods first developed and validated in phantoms and animal models are rapidly translated to the clinical setting at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.	1038726
Cardiac arrhythimias, General cardiology	1039131
mood disorders, including depression and bipolar disorder; treatment of psychiatric illness in patients with coexisting medical and neurologic disease	1039265
Transplant nephrology	1039271
Unos Medical Director Renal Transplant Program.
Unos Medical Director Pancreas Transplant Program.
Director and Course developer for Renal Transplant Fellowship.
Director, Transplant Nephrology.
Research: Impact of different immunosuppressive protocols on kidney function. Immunobiology of kidney allograft rejection.
NIH sponsored trials: Genomics of chronic renal allograft rejection. Impact of Folic acid supplementation on cardiovascular disease of renal transplant patients (Favorit Trial). Immunophenotypig and functional profiles of peripheral lymphocytes in renal transplant recipients after T-cell depletion. 
Course Director for Monthly Clinical Transplant Conference	1039271
Congestive heart failure, Heart transplantation	1039301
Glaucoma, Normal-Tension Glaucoma, Frequency-Doubling Perimetry, Optic Nerve and Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Imaging, Tonometry

	1039330
Chronic viral hepatitis, Post liver transplant medical issues	1039411
Lasik surgery, Ophthalmic pathology, Refractive surgery, Refractive surgery	1039479
My research interests are ecclectic and varied. 
	1039527
Dyspnea / exercise physiology, Interstitial lung disease, Lung cancer	1039528
Pathogenesis of Legionella pneumophila, intracellular parasitism and protein secretion.
	1039530
Leukemia (CLL), Lymphoma	1039566
Body imaging, Cross sectional imaging of the body, Genitourinary radiology, Ultrasound, Ultrasound evaluation in organ transplantation, Ultrasound evaluation in prostate imaging	1039668
General gastroenterology, acid-peptic disease, functional gastrointestinal disorders, Helicobacter pylori infection	1039670
Pharmacology of gastrointestinal disorders, Upper gastrointestinal tract disorders, functional gastrointestinal disorders, Helicobacter pylori infection, colorectal cancer screening and educaiton
	1039670
Irritable Bowel Syndrome, Constipation, Dyspepsia, GERD


	1039677
I am a consulting biostatistician, with focus on clinical trials, basic science and epidemiology.	1039815
Developmental nephrology, endothelial cells, mesangial cells, gene regulation


	1039923
We study the regulation of alveolar fluid clearance under hypoxia. In particular we study the signal transduction mechanisms that regulate the activity of the Na,K-ATPase in alveolar epithelial cells	1040160
Anatomic Pathology, Neuropathology, Neuromuscular pathology<BR><BR>

The early growth response (Egr) family of transcription factors are involved in cellular growth and differentiation and may play a role as initiation and propagation factors in some cancers. A major focus of our research is to understand the role of Egr transcription factors during development of the mammalian nervous system. We and others have discovered that these transcription factors regulate a variety of developmental processes including hindbrain organization, peripheral nerve myelination, sympathetic nervous system development, male and female fertility, induction of late phase long term potentiation (a form of synaptic plasticity) and muscle mechanoreceptor development. In the nervous system, Egr transcription factors are downstream signaling mediators of neuronal activity and growth factor molecules known as neurotrophins. We are actively exploring their role in mediating a variety of neurotrophin actions that include neurite outgrowth, synaptic vesicle protein regulation and muscle stretch receptor development. As plasticity related transcription factors, Egr genes are important for mediating nervous system adaptation to a variety of developmental and environmental stimuli. Egr transcription factors are also essential for some non-nervous system related developmental processes. For example, they are involved in monocyte and thymocyte development, and they are involved in growth and differentiation of pheochromocytoma and neuroblastoma tumors. Using these model systems of differentiation, we are exploring the varied developmental pathways and target genes regulated by Egr transcription factors to elucidate their roles in cancer and developmental biology.	1040637
Cancer pain, neuropathic pain syndromes and their prevention or management, analgesic agents for relief of pain
	1040956
Dr. Paice's clinical work is in the management of cancer-related pain. Current research is in the study of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy associated with paclitaxel.	1040956
Epstein-Barr virus, viral genome replication, viral genome maintenance, latency, transformation
	1041070
Neurosurgical anesthesia, Regional anesthesia	1041107
Patient-reported outcomes and patient-provider communication in chronic illnesses, with a focus on underserved populations and health disparities. 










	1041128
Aging, Palliative & End-of-Life Care, Patient-Reported Outcomes, Quality of Life, Caregiver Health, Clinical Decision Making, Health Literacy, Item Response Theory / Rasch Models, Item Banking & Computerized Adaptive Testing, Informatics


	1041130
Research areas of interest include: public health genomics, ethical/legal/social issues in genetics/genomics, translational genomics, community-based participatory research interventions and education models, community consultation methods, client-derived outcome measures, and cross-cultural issues with underserved populations in health care. 
	1041142
Medical Physics, Digital Imaging, Cancer Detection,
Clinical Image Quality
	1041268
Healthy lifestyles, Medical care of the obese patient, Preventive medicine	1041308
My research agenda lies in the area of Experimental and Clinical Neuroscience, and involves mainly the study of spinal neuronal mechanisms/circuits coupled with motor control and locomotion. The main driven force for my studies is to better understand the functional units of motor control in humans so to develop rehabilitation protocols that promote sensorimotor recovery in people with a spinal cord injury (SCI). I employ non-invasive electrophysiological techniques incorporating also engineering elements to fully describe the above concepts. Currently, my research studies are concentrated on examining the reorganization of spinal reflex circuits after intensive locomotor training in people with SCI. 


	1041441
Cardiac Development, Coronary Arteries, Vasculogenesis, Smooth Muscle, Signaling, Cell Fate
	1041463
Hematopathology <BR><BR>
Cytogenetics, hematologic malignancies	1041493
Migration of subventricular zone cells.

	1041494
Pediatric Nephrology, Lupus Nephritis and Vasculitis, Nephrotic Syndrome, FSGS (Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis), Hypertension, Dialysis and Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy, Prenatal Counseling regarding congenital kidney conditions, Polycystic Kidney Disease	1041556
Our research closely links to the clinical problem of pressure induced soft tissue injury, commonly seen as the pressure sore in SCI individuals. To test our hypotheses that the mechanical properties are altered in wounded and denervated tissues, soft tissue samples (skin, fat, muscle) freshly collected from able-bodied, SCI individuals, and wounded tissues are being tested for compressive mechanical properties. Rat models of chronic SCI and pressure sore are being used to characterize the mechanical property change in vivo and ex vivo. A finite-element model for buttock-thigh has been developed specifically for the condition of sitting, is used as a tool to bridge the lab-acquired basic knowledge of the soft tissues and the clinical problems in reality. The effect of different sitting configuration on the buttock-thigh tissue loading, tissue perfusion, and skin temperature elevation are evaluated. We found that sitting greatly impeded tissue perfusion in buttock tissue and the pressure relief push-ups did not provide adequate recovery for tissue perfusion. Also, SCI individuals needed longer time for buttock tissue perfusion to recover after a long time sitting. We developed an Intelligent Automated Pressure Relief Seat  IAPRS which detects the seat-buttock contact and automatically relieves the buttock loading by lowering down the back part of the seat. IAPRS is being tested in clinical setting on SCI individuals and sitting related pressure sore. Preliminary results show that IAPRS promotes the pressure ulcer healing in sitting area, while maintaining the mobility for wheelchair users during the treatment of pressure ulcers. To test the feasibility of early detecting of pressure induced deep tissue injury under intact skin; an ultrasound tissue palpating probe (TUPS) has been adapted for in vivo testing of soft tissue gross stiffness on human subjects and on our animal models to differentiate injured from healthy tissue by detecting their stiffness difference	1041624
Ambulatory anesthesia, Regional anesthesia	1041683
I am primarily interested in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with inherited metabolic disorders and in clinical trials of new therapies for rare disorders. I have particular interest and expertise in disorders daignosed through newborn screening (phenylketonuria and others) and in lysosomal storage disorders.
	1041733
Alveolar epithelial cell function, Gene transfer, epithelial beta-adrenergic receptors	1041762
Pediatric oculoplastic disease, ocular involvement in cGVHD, adult strabismus
	1041909
hypoxia



	1041920
My work focuses on cancer stem cells (CSCs) found in patients with primary brain tumors, in particular, Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Despite aggressive treatment including surgery, radiation and chemotherapy, the average survival of patients with GBM is just over one year.  I believe that tumor progression in driven by glioma stem cells that are intrinsically resistant to cell death secondary to radiation- and chemotherapy-induced DNA damage. In collaboration with Drs John Kessler and Sam Stupp, I am working on a self-assembling nanogel conjugated to a biologically active molecule that can diminish the stem-ness of these cells, and render them more susceptible to current treatments.	1042081
I am interested in the treatment of spinal column and cord disease, specifically traumatic, degenerative, and neoplastic processes. I am currently investigating the outcomes of people with post-traumatic syringomyelia. In addition, I am studying the effect of surgical treatment on basal energy expenditure in those with lumbar spondylolisthesis. I am a member of the Spine Oncology Study Group, an international multidisciplinary group dedicated to the furthering of our understanding reagrding the care of people with tumors of the spinal column. Lastly, I have a number of studies at present regarding both undergraduate and gradute medical education.
	1042149
Crohn's disease, IBD - Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Ulcerative colitis	1042263
Dr Meiers research interests lie in the fields of functional evaluation of prosthetic components, the development of appropriate prosthetic/orthotic components and technology for economically disadvantaged countries, and the successful dissemination of such technology through the development of appropriate education materials (knowledge transfer). She is further interested in the development of alternative and intelligent materials and their application in the field of prosthetics and orthotics. Dr Meier also has an interest in motor control and the adaptations that occur during the rehabilitation process.
	1042273
Clinical and translational research in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease and bone and soft-tissue sarcoma


	1042296
Dr. Andrew Evens is Assistant Professor of Medicine at the Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University and member of the Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center. Following graduation with honors from Chicago College of Osteopathic Medicine, Dr. Evens completed an Internal Medicine residency at Lutheran General Hospital and he served an additional year as Chief Resident.  Dr. Evens subsequently completed his Hematology/Oncology fellowship at Northwestern University and is board certified in Hematology and Medical Oncology.  During fellowship, Dr. Evens also completed a Masters of Science in Clinical Investigation at Northwestern University.

Dr. Evens' clinical and research interests are in lymphoma: non-Hodgkin lymphoma and Hodgkin disease, including stem cell transplantation (SCT).  Dr. Evens is also involved in a translational lymphoma laboratory to develop and study novel treatment agents for the treatment of lymphoma. His translational investigations have included research of free radical-mediated biology and the study of apoptotic pathways in hematologic malignancies.  Dr. Evens was awarded a 5-year NIH/NCI K23 grant towards the study of targeting the mitochondria for the treatment of lymphoma.  

Dr. Evens is Principal Investigator for several investigator-initiated clinical trials including the combination of motexafin gadolinium with zevalin radioimmunotherapy for relapsed lymphoma, proteasome inhibitor/rituximab therapy for untreated indolent lymphoma, gemcitabine/bortezomib for T-cell lymphoma, chemoimmunotherapy for Burkitt's lymphoma, and a novel therapeutic regimen for the treatment of primary CNS lymphoma.  He has also published data regarding the prognosis and treatment of mantle-cell lymphoma and treatment of newly diagnosed and relapsed/refractory Hodgkin disease.

Dr. Evens is a member of the Core lymphoma committee of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) and he is Principal Investigator for national ECOG clinical trials. Dr. Evens is involved in collaborations with investigators at Northwestern and throughout the region regarding post-transplant related lymphoma, drug safety, and epidemiologic lymphoma research.  He also co-chairs an annual Chicago Lymphoma Symposium along with the University of Chicago.

Dr. Evens was recipient of the 2002 ECOG Translational Research Award and received the Compassionate Care award from the Women's Board of Northwestern Memorial Hospital in 2005.  Dr. Evens is also highly interested in mentoring residents and fellows at Northwestern University for translational and clinical research. 	1042296
Dr Kaklamani has been working on the role of TGF-&#946; and its polymorphisms in breast and colon cancer risk. She is currently conduction two clinical trials enrolling patients with a person and/or family history of breast and colon cancer. The objectives of these trials are to identify genetic markers which will lead to earlier detection and prevention of breast and colon cancer. 
Dr Kaklamani is also conduction clinical trials with a focus of treatment of breast cancer. More specifically she is the principal investigator of a trial evaluating an investigational agent, RSR-13, in patients receiving brain radiation for breast cancer. 	1042297
General Gastroenterology
Colon cancer screening
Biliary disease--ERCP
Viral hepatitis B and C	1042299
Child health within the context of the family


	1042402
Preventive medicine, Primary care internal medicine	1042418
Dr. Kyriacou is Professor of Emergency Medicine and Preventive Medicine at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.  His medical degree is from the University of Michigan and his residency training was in emergency medicine at the Los Angeles County + University of Southern California Medical Center.  He also has a Master of Public Health degree from the University of Michigan and a Doctor of Philosophy degree in epidemiology from the UCLA School of Public Health where his dissertation project was on risk factors for injury from domestic violence.  In addition, Dr. Kyriacou has a Diploma in Tropical Medicine and Hygiene from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.  Dr. Kyriacous research interests also include injury prevention, clinical infectious diseases, and health services.  Dr. Kyriacou has mentored numerous medical students, residents, and junior faculty on clinical and epidemiological research methods, resulting in several publications and the awarding of numerous masters degrees.  Dr. Kyriacous research endeavors have been recognized with awards from the Emergency Medicine Foundation and the University of California/California Wellness Foundation.  Dr. Kyriacou has also international experience, having worked in Ghana and Ethiopia.  He was recently appointed to the Fulbright Specialist Roster.



	1042563
Radiofrequency Ablation - Tumors, Sympathectomy/ Hyperhidrosis, Thoracic Oncology, Bronchoscopy, Brachytherapy, Robotic Thoracic Surgery, Lobectomy, Esophagectomy, Airway/Esophageal Stenting, Medistinal Tumors, Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Esophageal Cancer, Esophageal Disorders, Minimally Invasive Surgery, Mesothelioma, Lung Cancer, Chest Wall/Mediastinal Tumors, Tracheal Surgery, Video-Assisted Thoracoscopic Surgery	1042631
Hematopathology <BR><BR>
Diagnostic and prognostic markers for lymphomas and leukemia.	1042758
Spinal Cord Tumors, Spinal Deformity, Spinal Surgery, Spinal Trauma abd Brain Tumors	1042765
My research focuses on the migratory/invasive behavior of brain tumor cells that results in increased resistance of these cells to chemotherapy and radiation therapy.  I am addressing this question through molecular biology and genetic techniques with the aim of finding ways to reverse resistance to these therapies and thus improving patient outcomes.  My clinical interest is synergistic with that of my research, in the surgical care of patients diagnosed with brain tumors.

	1042768
Primary interests include ambulatory regional anesthesia and obstetric anesthesia.
	1042791
My primary research interest surrounds the physiologic and pathophysiologic regulation of the fetoplacental vasculature and its contribution to short- and long-term pregnancy outcome.	1042806
Pancreatic diseases, pancreatic neoplasms, chronic pancreatitis, surgery for pancreatic cancer and chronic pancreatitis
	1042840
My research interests include rehabilitation outcomes and health policy research. In particular, I have expertise in the design, development, selection, and enhancement of rehabilitation outcomes measures using contemporary psychometric approaches. My research compares access and outcomes of across post-acute care rehabilitation settings. My health policy research involves examining the impact of Medicare post-acute care policy on service utilization, costs, and patient outcomes.  I have been a licensed occupational therapist for over 20 years working in the areas of both older adults and pediatrics. My particular clinical interest is behavior change and human motivation.  I am certified as a trainer in Motivational Interviewing. I am a charter member of the AOTA Research Advisory Panel and serves as an AOTA representative to the Preventive Care and Screening workgroup of the American Medical Associations (AMA) Physician Consortium on Performance Improvement (PCPI) which is responsible for developing quality indicators in health promotion and prevention.


	1042973
The major focus of my lab is to understand the mechanisms utilized by invading and metastasizing tumor cells to promote expression and activity of extracellular matrix-degrading matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). The lab currently has two projects. In our oral cancer project, we are interested in understanding how TGF-b1 signaling through Snail family of transcription factors increases MMPs and promotes invasion of oral cancer cells in 2D and 3D organotypic models of oral cancer. We have also established an orthotopic model for oral cancer wherein OSCC cells expressing GFP-tagged Snail or Slug are injected directly into the tongue to examine the role of these key proteins in promoting tumor growth and invasion in the in vivo microenvironment. 
	In addition to our work in oral cancer, we have also been examining the contribution of fibrosis to pancreatic cancer progression. Fibrosis, also known as desmoplastic reaction, is a very prominent feature of almost all human pancreatic tumors, and earlier reports suggested that this desmoplasia in fact contributed to pancreatic cancer progression. We recently published that the pancreatic cancer cells adjacent to areas of fibrosis exhibit increased expression of membrane type 1-MMP (MT1-MMP). We are particularly interested in understanding how the desmoplastic reaction increases the expression of MT1-MMP in the cancer cells, thus enabling the pancreatic cancer cells to invade through a collagen-rich extracellular matrix. In addition to utilizing in vitro models to examine the cross-talk between type I collagen and MT1-MMP, we have also established a transgenic mouse model in which MT1-MMP is selectively and under regulated conditions expressed in the pancreas to examine the effect of MT1-MMP on tumor growth and on the generation of desmoplastic reaction.

	1042976
Geriatric Medicine, Geriatric Pre/Post-Operative Care, Pressure Ulcers, Patient Safety, Medical Education	1043078
Lee Lindquist, MD, MPH is an Assistant Professor of Medicine at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.  She is a member of the Division of Geriatrics and her clinical practice primarily revolves around care of those aged 65 yrs and older.  Dr. Lindquist is a graduate of Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine and completed her internal medicine residency and her fellowship training in geriatrics at Northwestern University. She is board certified in internal medicine and geriatrics.  She also completed her Masters in Public Health during her participation in the NRSA fellowship program.
Her research has focused on issues of transitional care among the elderly, particularly in improving the safety between the hospital discharge to outpatient care settings. She has also performed work on assisted living and alternatives to assisted living for the elderly as well as improving geriatric education for medical students. 
	1043078
Surgical Pathology <BR><BR>	1043177
Breast imaging	1043288
Geriatric oncology, patient safety, health literacy, public policy, health law, human rights, dementias (including Dementia Alzheimer's Type)


	1043300
Serious adverse drug reactions in elderly cancer patients in the oncology setting are not being regularly identified, evaluated and reported. 

When adverse events are reported for older cancer patients, the reports are often incomplete and hence causality assignment is delayed, leading to increased morbidity and mortality.

A  clinically-based, hypothesis-driven approach to pharmacovigilance will improve the completeness of reporting and the assignment of causality, resulting in improved health outcomes for older cancer patients.

In summary, I aim to 1) Identify, evaluate, and report on serious adverse reactions to drugs used in cancer patients age 65 and older;  2) Assess the completeness of adverse event reports for patients 65 years and older and  3) Assess both causality assignment and the timeliness of causality assignment in  patients <65 years with those >65 years	1043300
The Li laboratory is interested in dissection of molecular mechanisms that regulate cellular stress response and cell death signaling.  We have recently identified Cdk5 activator binding protein C53 as a novel regulator of cell cycle and DNA damage response.  We are currently investigating how C53 regulates normal cell cycle progression and DNA damage response. 

	1043341
Dr. Green's research employs murine models of cholestatic liver disease and fatty liver disorders in order to determine the pathogenesis of liver injury, and  thus devise rational therapies for these common liver diseases.  In addition, he participates in clinical trials on the treatment of hepatic disorders with other members in the Division of Hepatology. 	1043419
Hepatology (liver)	1043419
Body imaging, Ultrasound (US)	1043458
Ethics, professionalism and communication in the healthcare setting.

Achieving measurable efficacy, safety, efficiency and satisfaction in a complex healthcare delivery system.	1043560
cancer of the pancreas, cancer of the small intestine, colon cancer, esophageal cancer, liver cancer, rectal cancer, gastric cancer;
rehabilitation therapy for cancer patients


	1043582
Neuroradiology	1043621
Neuroanesthesia	1043672
Menopause, Minimally invasive surgery, Perimenopause management, Vaginal pain, Vaginal plastic repairs	1043708
Thyroid disease, Fine needle aspiration thyroid nodules, pituitary disease
	1044194
General neurologic disorders	1044200
My focus and expertise as a clinical psychologist is in the practice of cognitive-behavioral therapy (as clinician, instructor, and supervisor). Within that paradigm, my research and clinical interests are in the treatment of anxiety and mood disorders, particularly obsessive-compulsive disorder.  Also, I am interested in the use of technology for self-help and the treatment of mental health problems.

	1044214
Hematopathology<BR><BR>

Lymphoproliferative disorders	1044275
Benign breast disease, Breast cancer surgery, High risk breast disease, Surgical oncology
	1044490
Medical disorders of the breast, Primary care internal medicine, Women's health care	1044534
Advanced Laparoscopic Procedures, Gallstones, Hernia, Obesity Surgery, Pancreas	1044537
Human brain imaging of chronic pain conditions. Animal studies of crtical dynamics of pain.
	1044550
clinical trial design, vaccines, epidemiological methods
	1044559
Regional Anesthesia
	1044682
Adrenal tumors, Female hernias, Galbladder disease, Gallstones, Incisional hernias, Laparoscopy, Minimally invasive endocrine surgery, Parathyroid Disease, Thyroid tumors, Ventral hernias	1044711
Hematopathology, leukemia, nucleoporins, NUP98
	1044739
Calcium Disorders, Hyperparathyroidism, Metabolic Bone Diseases, Osteoporosis	1044955
Cancer genetics, Colon cancer

	1044980
Gynecologic Imaging, Pelvic MRI, Body MRI, Hepatobiliary MRI, Computed Tomography, PET scanning

	1045018
Cancer early detection, Colposcopy, Ovarian cancer	1045019
Articular cartilage repair, General orthopaedics, Shoulder problems / injuries, Sports medicine
	1045030
My clinical interests are in pediatric neurocritical care including stroke, traumatic brain injury, refractory status epilepeticus and the neurologic complications of critical illness. The activity of my research group is focused on the glial responses to traumatic brain injury and the role of activated glia in the mechanisms of epileptogenesis and blood brain barrier dysregulation following acute brain injury. 	1045124
Atrial fibrillation, Biventricular pacing, Cardiac arrhythmias, Catheter ablation, Implantable defibrillators	1045145
Early detection, biomarkers, epigenetics, drug resistance, DNA methylation


	1045159
Head & neck cancer, Lung cancer	1045163
Chorea, Dystonia, Essential tremor, Multiple systems atrophy (MSA), Myoclonus, Parkinson's disease, Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), Tics	1045197
Mechanisms of action of the naturally occurring inhibitors of angiogenesis;
endocrine therapy for breast cancer	1045213
Current research is focused on Interventional Spine Care.  
Clinical interests include diagnosis and treatment of spine disorders, including cervical and lumbar degenerative disc disease, radicular pain/sciatica, facet joint mediated pain, and other causes.  Treatment is focused on rehabilitation, including physical therapy and occupational therapy. Complementary treatments offered include acupuncture and chiropractic.  All treatments are offered on site at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago.  Interventional spine procedures include lumbar epidural steroid injections/selective nerve root blocks, facet injections and radiofrequency neurotomy(rhizotomy), facet cyst aspiration/rupture, sacroiliac joint injections, discography, percutaneous disc decompression, and sympathetic blocks


	1045293
Circadian rhythm disorders, Insomnia, Nocturnal seizures, Parsomnias, Restless leg, Sleep apnea, Sleep disorders, Snoring and increased upper airways	1045433
Our laboratory investigates the role of the nuclear factor Ikaros in T cell development and leukemogenesis. Ikaros is a nuclear factor that is a component of two chromatin remodeling complexes associated with gene activation as well as gene repression.  Genetically engineered Ikaros null mice develop T cell leukemia with 100% penetrance suggesting that Ikaros is a tumor suppressor.  In addition, lack of Ikaros results in multiple defects in T cell development that include a decrease in the number of T cells, an increased potential to differentiate into the CD4 lineage and a complete lack of fetal T cell development. In addition, they are unable to undergo negative selection, a checkpoint that is required to prevent the inappropriate maturation of autoreactive T cells.  In order to determine mechanisms for Ikaros role in T cell biology, we are studying the role of Ikaros in regulating Notch and TCR signaling pathways, as well as in regulating early developmental decisions from the level of early lymphoid progenitors.  We are also interested in investigating the role of Ikaros in regulation of T helper fate decisions during an immune response. 
	1045466
Major focus of my research program is a translational approach to study of valvular heart disease basic and clinical research.	1046251
Diseases of ear, Ear surgery, Otology	1046467
Ablations, Arrhythmias, Defibrillators, EP studies, Pacemakers, Syncope
	1046492
Gene delivery, nuclear transport, intracellular trafficking of DNA, gene therapy	1046519
Rheumatoid Arthritis, Psoriatic Arhritis (combined program with Dermatology), Spondyloarthopathies
	1046741
My research examines the effects of prostheses and orthoses on human locomotion in order to increase understanding, establish efficacy, and improve effectiveness of prosthetic and orthotic interventions for people with disability.  	1046744
My research focuses on the role of secreted protein toxins on bacterial pathogenesis.  The toxins we study are  members of the MARTX family and are produced by Vibrio cholerae, a pathogen important for the diarrheal disease cholera, and Vibrio vulnificus, a pathogen that causes septicemia and necrotizing fasciitis from seafood consumption.  Our group studies both the role of these toxins in evasion of the innate immune response using mouse models and the mechanism of action of these toxins using a combination of cell biology, biochemistry, and structural biology.
	1046905
Resident education, Student education	1047087
Neuroradiology	1047088
Hepatology	1047091
MaryBeth Lake, MD, a former chief resident at Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic (WPIC) at the University of Pittsburgh, is associate professor and the director of education in the Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, which is housed at Childrens Memorial Hospital. Prior to joining Northwestern and Children's Memorial in 2000, Dr. Lake worked briefly in the private sector providing inpatient, outpatient and partial hospitalization program services. She is a member of several regional and national professional organizations and was previously a member of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) Committee for Liaison with Primary Care. Dr. Lake is a co-author of the Concise Guide to Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, as well as other publications. In addition to her focus on graduate medical education, Dr. Lake has a special interest in family therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy. 

	1047131
Healthcare ethics; Development of cultural competence in physical therapists; Provision of patient-centered physical therapy; Professional development of physical therapists	1047160
Laboratory investigations of the molecular basis of disease progression in myeloid malignancies.	1047214
Leukemia, Lymphoma, Myeloma	1047214
General gastroenterology	1047272
Coronary disease, Lipid management, Prevention of heart disease, Preventive cardiology	1047289
Cellular immunology, macrophage-virus interactions, apoptosis induction
	1047291
Dr. Weiss is Director of the medical school's Institute for Healthcare Studies.  The Institute conducts research and education in the area of health care quality, patient safety, healthcare equity, and policy.  Dr. Weiss' research includes more than 100 publications in the area with a focus no chronic respiratory disease and clinical guidlines.  Dr. Weiss is involved in the development of national healthcare policy related to measurement of physician quality of care.	1047292
We are interested in the universal patterns of organization of complex systems in nature.  
Previous work includes the  mathematical modeling of cardiac arrhythmias, the study of molecular motors and ion channels as  stochastic ratchets, cooperative role of nonlinearities and noise in neural coding, self-organization and collective phenomena in ants swarms, brains and communities of natural and artificial agents.
	1047445
Headaches, Primary care internal medicine	1047485
Health care policy
Health care operational and financial administration	1047485
Pediatric liver disease	1047547
I am a pediatric neuropsychologist and conduct clinical neuropsychological evaluations on school age children and adolescents.  My clinical interests include brain tumor and other cancers, brain injury, solid organ transplant, lupus, encephalitis, epilepsy, sickle cell, stroke, genetic disorders, as well as learning disability and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).  My research is primarily on neurocognitive outcomes in patients with liver disease and liver transplant.
	1047657
Violence prevention; public health surveillance; child abuse and neglect; adolescent health and well-being; www.illinoishealthsurvey.org; www.centerforcommunitypartnerships.org.




	1047664
Myeloma, Transplantation	1047682
Myeloma, Transplantation	1047683
Obstetric anesthesiology	1047866
Cytotoxic killing mechanisms, Apoptosis, Tumor Immunology, Neuroimmunoendocrinology.


	1047935
RNA interference - Molecular biology and Therapeutics	1047949
Pregnancy outcomes, infectious disease in pregnancy	1047986
Pathogenesis of preterm labor, infection in pregnancy, prenatal genetic diagnosis

	1047987
My lab studies the structure and function of ion channels, a family of membrane proteins that play many key roles in neuroscience and which are a major target of essential drugs used in clinical medicine. About a third of all genes in a typical genome code for membrane proteins, yet we know very little about their structure and function. Because ion movement across membranes can be measured with exquisite sensitivity, ion channels have always been at the vanguard of functional studies of membrane proteins, and as a consequence we have learned a great deal about how they function. Until recently, however, ion channels, like so many other membrane proteins, had proven very difficult to study at the structural level. The recent high-resolution description of several ion channels has opened up the field of structure-function in ion channels, and we are now in a position to ask detailed questions about how function is achieved through structure in this essential class of proteins.

How do voltage-dependent ion channels sense the membrane potential? Through what structural rearrangements do these channels achieve voltage-dependent ion flow across the membrane? How can highly dynamic proteins maintain such outstanding control of what sorts of ions are allowed to pass? These are some of the questions that we attempt to answer. 
	1048034
Our research focuses on molecular and cellular mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease. In particular, we investigate the beta-secretase enzyme BACE1, which initiates the production of the beta-amyloid peptide that plays a central early role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's. We use a combination of biochemical, cell culture and animal model approaches to investigate the role of BACE1 in health and disease.  

	1048036
Sleep disorders, epilepsy, narcolepsy, sleep apnea, restless legs, clinical pharmacology
	1048050
Arterial dissections, Carotid artery disease, Cerebral hemorrhage, Familial strokes, Inherited strokes, Mini-strokes, Stroke, Subarachnoid hemorrhage, Vascular dementia	1048055
Contraception and Family Planning
	1048162
Female bladder problems, Female pelvic floor disorders and pain, Female pelvic surgery, Gynecologic surgery, Recurrent bladder infections, Urinary incontinence, Urogynecology, Vaginal prolapse, Minimally invasive surgery	1048277
Magnetic resonance imaging, kidney, renal medulla, blood flow, oxygenation, acute renal failure, hypertension, endothelial dysfunction


	1048362
Magnetic Resonance Imaging
	1048363
Interventional Cardiology, angioplasty, stents, treatment of acute myocardial infarction, angiogenesis, valvular heart disease	1048496
The laboratory is interested in determining the role of intermediate filament proteins (IF) in prostate cancer. There are two main goals. First, can the development and progression of prostate cancer and patient outcome be determined be determined by the IF expression profile. This hypothesis is based on the observations that expression patterns of IF change when cells differentiate. Second, does the organization of nuclear lamins in prostate cancer cells affect DNA replication and transcription. We have previously determined that lamins directly bind proliferating cell nuclear antigen and expression of dominant negative mutant lamins affects DNA replication. Furthermore, we have shown that lamin expression affects RNA Pol II transcription. Nuclear microdomains can also influence the transcription potential of chromosomes in the region.	1048574
PCOS (poly cystic ovary syndrome)	1048590
Phenotyp-genotype studies in PCOS, mapping PCOS susceptibility genes, Specialized Center of Research (SCOR) on sex and gender factors affecting women's health, fetal origins of PCOS	1048590
Sepsis, macrophage, endotoxin tolerance, lipopolysaccharide, cell biology, signal transduction, MODS, surgical infections, critical illness 

	1048758
Cells contact and communicate with their neighbors via specialized cell surface receptors.  This intimate exchange of information controls morphogenetic events during embryonic development and maintains tissue organization in adults.  Birth defects and cancer commonly result when cells fail to recognize and respond appropriately to their environment.  The work in my laboratory is guided by the hypothesis that epithelial cells receive and interpret contextual information through the coordination of adhesion and signaling receptor systems present on the cell surface.  To test this idea, we manipulate the ability of epithelial cells to interact with one another and measure their capacity to transduce intracellular signals that regulate cell fate and behavior.  In parallel, we assess the potential of cell surface signaling receptors to alter the manner in which epithelial cells adhere to their partners.  A three-dimensional in vitro model of the human epidermis is used to help define these adhesion-signaling networks during epithelial tissue morphogenesis. 
	1048762
Comprehensive Ophthalmology, Meidcal Ethics	1048927
Advanced laparoscopic surgery, In vitro fertilization, Infertility, Polycystic ovary syndrome	1049188
Gastrointestinal Cancer Surgery, Melanoma / Sarcoma, Pancreatic / Liver cancer surgery, Surgical Oncology
	1049330
Pain medicine	1049389
Interventional spine procedures, Spine Pain Management, Neuroradiology, CT Angiography, CT/MR Perfusion, MR Spectroscopy, 3D Imaging


	1049440
Facial plastic, Facial reconstruction, Facial surgery
	1049457
Patient safety, Health Services, Operations, Quality

	1049458
Anal incontinence, Benign anorectal disorders, Colon and rectal cancer, Colon and rectal surgery, Hereditary colon cancer syndromes, Ileal pouch surgery, Inflammatory bowel disease, Laparoscopy	1049461
Retina, synaptic transmission, glutamate, vision
	1049467
Pancreatic cancer, cancer biology, growth factors, novel therapeutics, cachexia, eicosanoid metabolism
	1049549
sickle cell pain management, hypertension screening in the emergency department, pain management, triage systems


	1049685
Dr. Yan is a cardiovascular epidemiologist with a background in demography and health economics. Her main research interests are prevention and control of cardiovascular diseases (including diabetes).  She has been involved in investigating associations of major modifiable risk factors and psychosocial factors with long-term coronary and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. She is highly interested in and committed to translating best evidence into policy and practice globally, especially in China. She is currently the head of the Research and Development Division at the George Institute for International Health, China (www.george.org.cn) and the director of the NHLBI/UHG Center of Excellence for Chronic Disease Prevention and Control in China.	1049703
My research interests lie in the area of neurodegenerative disease, particularly Alzheimer's disease and related disorders such as the frontotemporal lobar degenerations and motor neuron disease. My focus is on the role of genetics and morphologic abnormalities such as parenchymal vacuolation and ubiquitin, TDP-43, and tau positive inclusions in frontotemporal lobar degenerations and related disorders such as primary progressive aphasia, progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, and motor neuron disease-associated dementia. In addition, I continue my role of Neuropathology Core leader in the NIH-supported Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer Disease Center at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. Within the framework of the Core-related Laboratory for Cognitive and Molecular Morphometry, the Neuropathology Core is actively involved in assisting basic science researchers investigate the applicability of their findings to human tissue.	1049781
Electroencephalography, Epilepsy, Seizure disorders	1049798
Limb Reconstruction, Metastic Disease, Musculoskeletal Oncology, Soft Tissue Sarcoma	1049802
Adult and Pediatric Spine Disorders, Cervical and Degenerative, Minimally Invasive Procedures, Scolosis and Deformity	1049813
pulmonary embolism, deep venous thrombosis, cardiovascular imaging





	1049949
Cardiac Transplantation, Heart Failure, Signal Transduction (research)	1049950
Auditory nociception, brain evolution and development, mechanosensory transduction
	1050035
Interventional Radiology including oncologic management and venous access.	1050041
Interventional Radiology	1050056
Ms. Trivedi has a special research interest in how hereditary cancer may affect the social and reproductive options of young women at high risk for cancer.	1050146
My interests are in clinical outcomes following anesthesia and surgery.
	1050169
Air pollution, ischemic cardiovascular events, acute lung injury, leptin 
	1050189
Neuroanesthesiology, Pain Medicine	1050264
Our laboratory studies the neuroinvasive herpesviruses with a focus on the molecular mechanisms by which these pathogens propagate and disseminate within the nervous system. We use a combination of live-cell fluorescence microscopy, molecular genetics and neuronal cell biology to examine the dynamics of viral particle assembly and intracellular axon transport. These molecular mechanisms are then examined in the larger context of neuroinvasion and pathogenesis. Two long-term goals of our research are to identify novel targets in the viral infectious cycle for development of antivirals, and engineering recombinant viral particles as effective gene delivery vehicles.

(Keywords: neuron, axon, microtubule, cytoskeleton, dynein, kinesin, transport, virus, virion, herpesvirus, herpes, capsid, tegument, egress, nucleus, GFP, BAC, bacmid, recombination, GS1783)	1050302
Interested in the use of high-fidelity medical simulation to improve individual and team performance in acute emergencies, in particular, the amount and frequency of training needed.



	1050367
Dr. Urbanek's research focuses on the identification of susceptibility genes for complex diseases.  Her approach to this research is to use family based gene-mapping techniques and population based association studies in conjunction with molecular techniques to identify and verify genes and pathways contributing to the pathogenesis of genetically complex diseases. Specifically she is carrying out studies to identify susceptibility genes for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) that map to Chr19p3.13.  She has previously shown that this region shows linkage and association with PCOS in a large set of families.   Other projects focus on identifying candidate genes for gestational diabetes and  glycemic control during pregnancy,  and identifying genetic variation contributing to extreme obesity

	1050433
Genetics of complex diseases, PCOS, Obesity, Metabolic syndrome, diabetes	1050433
HIV infection, Orthopedic-related Infections, Travel-related infections	1050501
Molecular evolutionary mechanisms of HIV/SIV in host defense. 
Antiretroviral drug resistance and genetic variation in HIV. 
Transcriptional gene silencing of HIV-1 by siRNAs
	1050564
Adolescent depression, Adult depression, Anxiety disorders, Obsessive Compulsive disorder, Panic disorders
	1050565
My research objective focuses on two major themes, including: 1) the cellular mechanisms of how globus pallidus neurons process, integrate, and control information transfer throughout the basal ganglia, and 2) their relationship with the cause and symptomatic relief of PD and the motor symptoms and replacement therapy-induced movement dysfunction (i.e. L-DOPA induced dyskinesia) seen in these patients
	1050642
The mission of the Center for Global Initiatives is to create self-sustaining programs that improve access to healthcare in underserved communities throughout the world. 


	1050663
Head and Neck Radiology	1050725
The principal focus of this laboratory is the examination of the spatial and temporal patterns of motor cortical activity preceding voluntary movement and the function of this activity in shaping and controlling movement initiation.  In particular we are interested in the function of the primary and supplementary motor areas and their interactions with the basal-ganglia in the feedforward and feedback control of movement.  We use a variety of non-invasive techniques to assess these systems in humans such as:  high-resolution EEG recordings and MRI-based source reconstruction techniques, transcranial magnetic stimulation, peripheral nerve stimulation, multi-channel EMG, and measures of movement kinematics and kinetics.  Experiments are currently being conducted to examine the role of the primary and supplementary motor areas and brainstem in the preparation and release of voluntary movements.

Neurological diseases that affect the basal ganglia have a significant impact upon the function of the primary and supplementary motor areas.  For this reason, our research is also focused on the assessment of motor cortical function in neurological disorders such as Parkinsons disease and dystonia.  This work is conducted in collaboration with The Parkinsons Disease and Movement Disorders Center at Northwestern.  We are currently examining the control of repetitive movements in patients with Parkinsons disease and the effects of dopaminergic replacement therapy and deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (a neurosurgical treatment for advanced Parkinsons disease) on the control of these movements.	1050787
I am interested in investigating the role of musculoskeletal biomechanics on the upper extremity movement deficits following stroke based on experimental methods and computer modeling.
I am also interested in the design of robotic devices for therapeutic applications in stroke.
	1050821
I am interested in developing and translating biomedical engineering techniques to rehabilitation/therapy application and to understand basic neuromechanisms underlying movement disorder following stroke. More specifically, I am interested in developing new methods in the fields of functional brain imaging and modeling based signal processing to further understand the neuromechanisms underlying movement disorder following stroke. By combining these basic understandings with advanced biomedical engineering techniques, such as brain machine interface, I hope to regain the functional control of the impaired hand in more severely impaired stroke survivors.
	1050876
Major Psychotic Disorders, Women's Mental Health	1050919
Pediatric Cardiology, Electrophysiology, Education, Syncope, arrhythmias, sudden cardiac death, ventricular fibrillation
	1050964
skin inflammation research, melanoma immunotherapy research, skin neuroinflammation research, clinical treatment of general dermatology
	1051123
Cardiovascular outcomes, atrial fibrillation, ablation, defibrillators, anticoagulants, pacing
	1051160
Cardiovascular outcomes, atrial fibrillation, implantable devices, quality of care, ablation, anticoagulants, antiarrhythmic drugs	1051160
Autopsy   Pediatric Pathology<BR><BR>
Wilms tumors, germ cell tumors, genitourinary development	1051248
Brain functions are the result of the coordinated activity of large networks of neurons, which are composed by many different cell types. As a consequence, the specific properties of synaptic communication between different types of neurons play a pivotal role in shaping the computational power and network activity of specific brain regions. Research in my laboratory is focused on the hippocampus, which is an area of the brain involved in higher cognitive functions, such as learning and memory, and is often affected by important neurological illnesses like epilepsy, schizophrenia and Alzheimers disease. In particular, we are interested in the synaptic properties of GABAergic inhibitory interneurons, which are a very heterogeneous cellular population, with wide anatomical and functional diversity.
The main goal of this laboratory is to understand the role of specific types of interneurons in the regulation of hippocampal network function.
We hope that relating different interneurons to clear network functions may lead to a better understanding of the cellular and molecular basis of hippocampal activity, and generate important insight into the organizing principles of cortical networks in the normal brain and during disease.	1051269
MRI, stroke, perfusion, angiography, 
	1051280
Neontal-Perinatal Medicine, Neurodevelopmental Outcomes of High-risk Newborns
	1051295
prevention / reduction of postoperative nausea/vomiting and pain, Sports medicine principles applied to musical performance and training	1051375
Enhancing patient safety though use of information systems

	1051378
The impact of focused clinical decision support at the point of care.	1051378
Our laboratory studies the regulation of DNA Replication during the cell cycle. 	1051485
pancreas, cancer, transgenic, mice, models, detection, chemoprevention, diet, immunology, therapy
	1051542
Dr. Boberg has spent 12 years studying the development and evaluation of computer-based systems for patient education and support.  His research career spans basic, clinical, and health services/outcomes research.  He is author of over 25 peer-reviewed publications and book chapters, and has made dozens of presentations across the United States, Canada, and Europe.  Since 1999, he has been a member of NIH Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR), NCI, and NIDA study sections.  Dr. Bobergs research interests focus on needs assessment and design of web-based interventions to meet patient and caregiver needs.	1051571
patient needs assessment, web-based patient information and support
	1051571
The research interests of my group are in the field of cytokine-signaling in malignant cells.  We have previously identified and characterized several novel signaling cascades activated by the Type I interferon receptor downstream of Jak-kinases in leukemia and other neoplastic cells, including the insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-pathway, the Crk-pathway and the p38 Map kinase signaling cascade.  These studies have been expanded in efforts to determine the mechanisms by which chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) cells become refractory to the antiproliferative effect of interferons and the mechanisms of synergy between interferon and STI571 (Gleevec) in CML cells.  We have also recently identified the kinase that mediates phosphorylation of Stat1 on serine 727 as the protein kinase C-delta (PKC&#61540;).

 	Other research areas in which our laboratory is actively engaged are the mechanisms of signal transduction of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) and arsenic trioxide in acute promyelocytic leukemia.  We have recently shown that ATRA activates the Rac1/p38 Map kinase pathway and that pharmacological inhibition of this pathway enhances its effects on leukemia cells, raising the prospect of development of translational studies combining ATRA with pharmacological inhibitors of Map kinases for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia.  Finally, our group also studies the signaling mechanisms of regulation of normal hematopoiesis by myelosuppressive cytokines, including interferons, tumor necrosis factor-alfa and transforming growth factor-beta. 
	1051610
chronic leukemias, multiple myeloma, non-hodgkin's lymphoma	1051610
The laboratory has a long standing interest in the biology of epithelial stem cells. To this end, in collaboration with Tung-Tien Sun (NYU Medical School) we have identified and characterized epithelial stem cells of the epidermis, corneal epithelium and hair follicle 
     Another research focus of the laboratory is the characterization of epithelial-enriched  microRNAs (miRNAs) to understand how these miRNAs regulate epithelial stem cell behavior and epithelial differentiation. We have demonstrated the presence of several miRNAs that are specifically localized in the corneal epithelium of adult mice; other miRNAs are found in many stratified squamous epithelia including the epidermis. Recently we have found that the lipid phosphatase SHIP2 is a target for miRNA- 205 (miR-205), which is expressed in many stratified squamous epithelia. We have also found that miR-184, which is exclusively found in the corneal epithelium, antagonizes miR-205 to help maintain the levels of SHIP2. This is the first example of a miRNA negatively regulating another to maintain levels of a target protein. 	1051734
Radiation biology, nanotechnology, molecular biology, gene regulation, cancer biology, X-ray fluorescence microscopy	1051743
Neuropsychological Testing, Geriatrics, Medical Rehabilitation Populations, LD/ADHD, Nervous System Diseases, Alcohol/Substance Abuse, Bariatrics
	1051757
My interest is in the assessment and treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. In particular my work focuses on psychological interventions that supplemental pharmacotherapy to further improve clinical outcomes and overall quality of life. 
	1051857
Criminal Competency, Disability, Fitness for Duty, Race Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, Violence and Risk Assessment	1051986
Breast Imaging including ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging and breast intervention.	1052027
Dr. Kibbe is an Associate Professor of Surgery at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Division of Vascular Surgery as well as Staff Physician and Director of the Vascular Laboratory at the Jesse Brown VA Medical Center.  She received her MD degree from the University of Chicago in 1994, completed her general surgery residency at the University of Pittsburgh in 2002, and vascular surgery fellowship at Northwestern University in 2003.  She is board certified in both General Surgery and Vascular Surgery.  She received her RVT certification in 2003.

Dr. Kibbes clinical efforts focus on open and endovascular surgery, with a particular interest on carotid and peripheral arterial endovascular interventions.  Her research interests focus on nitric oxide vascular biology.  Specifically, she is studying how nitric oxide inhibits vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation by focusing on the role of nitric oxide in regulating the cell cycle, the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, and apoptosis.  She is also developing and testing nitric oxide-based pharmacological approaches to inhibit neointimal hyperplasia following vascular bypass grafting.  Her hope is to have a positive effect on patency rates of both vein and prosthetic bypass conduits, thereby effecting millions of patients that undergo coronary artery or peripheral artery bypass procedures.	1052037
Emergency Medicine, Medical Toxicology
	1052125
Dr. Chetkovich practices general neurology at Northwestern Memorial Hospital and at the Northwestern Medical Faculty Foundation Neurology Clinic.  Dr. Chetkovichs current research focuses on the molecular mechanisms that underlie the targeting of ion channels to synapses and other specialized areas of the dendrites of neurons.  In particular, the lab is interested in the synaptic targeting of ligand and voltage-gated ion channels, molecules responsible for controlling communication in the brain of mammals.  The laboratorys approach utilizes a variety of cellular, molecular and electrophysiological tools to address the mechanisms by which ion channels are targeted to dendrites, as well as the role that this targeting plays in synaptic structure and function as it pertains to epilepsy and brain injury, as well as in disorders of learning and memory such as Autism and Alzheimers disease.	1052190
Treatment of leukemias, myelodsyplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative disorders.  Management of non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin lymphomas.

	1052193
Neurovascular Critical CAre, Stroke	1052202
College Mental Health, General Adult Psychiatry	1052228
Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn, cGMP and cAMP signaling, PDE5, PDE3, oxidative stress



	1052335
My research has focused on access to health care, racial and ethnic disparities in care, health communication (including health literacy and language as barriers to care), and quality of care for chronic diseases.  I was Principal Investigator for the Literacy in Health Care Study, the first study of the prevalence of inadequate health literacy, and Principal Investigator for the Prudential Health Literacy Study, the largest study ever conducted of the relationship between literacy, health status, and use of health care services.  I was also the Principal Investigator for a study examining health outcomes for the uninsured among a national sample of adults in late middle-age.  In the area of quality of care, I served as the Associate Project Director for the AHCPR-funded Heart Failure guideline and was lead author for a series of manuscripts in JAMA on quality of care for patients with heart failure. I was Principal Investigator for the largest study conducted to date to determine whether publicly reporting hospital mortality rates led to improvements in outcomes	
My current projects are examining 1) the relationship between reading comprehension, cognitive function, and mortality among the elderly, 2) methods to improve health communication through multimedia, 3) the relationship between race, ethnicity, and language and quality of care for patients hospitalized with myocardial infarction, heart failure, and pneumonia, 4) racial/ethnic differences in subjective versus objective health status (i.e., physical functioning) measures, and 5) use of electronic health records to measure quality of care and to improve healthcare quality and safety.
	1052350
congestive heart failure, diabetes, disease prevention and health promotion, hypertension	1052350
My current research efforts employ several innovative methods for quantifying multi-joint upper extremity movement control during both postural and movement tasks in individuals with stroke. I utilize the same quantitative methods to instrument direct impairment-targeted interventions in an effort to elucidate neural mechanisms underlying impaired movement and subsequent restoration of normal movement in individuals with stroke. This research is in collaboration with Julius P.A. Dewald, PT, PhD and is further augmented by collaborations with colleagues with expertise in neural imaging techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging, electroencephalography, and transcranial magnetic stimulation. I also specialize in the training of Physical and Occupational Therapists in the administration of impairment, activity, and participation limitation assessments for individuals with stroke and the subsequent processes necessary for standardized delivery of assessments in clinical trials. Through my clinical research efforts I hope to contribute to the evolution of rehabilitation medicine and science by advancing neurological rehabilitation principles and techniques. The key component most likely to impact rehabilitation in this magnitude is the elucidation of the neurological underpinnings responsible for movement discoordination and through the subsequent development of more effective rehabilitation therapies for individuals with functionally debilitating movement impairments.
	1052351
Blood Bank   Hemostasis-Coagulation<BR><BR>
Our laboratory focuses on the mechanisms by which prostate cancer cells invade surrounding tissues and spread to distant sites in the body, leading to prostate cancer morbidity and death. We have characterized prostate cancer cell lines and found that the ras homolog RhoA and the nuclear transcription factor NF-kappaB are active and necessary for highly invasive prostate cancer cell behavior. Furthermore, RhoA activity is sufficient to increase prostate cancer cell invasion, motility and NF-kappaB activity. These studies suggest that up-regulation of a RhoA-NF-kappaB pathway may be a mechanism by which multiple types of aggressive tumor cells invade. These cellular signaling molecules likely effect the expression of growth factors and extracellular proteases which promote cancer cell invasion and metastasis. A major emphasis is being placed on determining how RhoA and NF-kappaB expression and activity is related to the grade and stage in clinical prostate cancer. Our present studies are further designed to discover the extracellular growth factors and proteases under the control of RhoA and NF-kappaB that participate in prostate cancer cell invasive and metastatic behavior. By identifying the mediators of prostate cancer cell invasion and metastasis, we hope to discover critical steps of cancer cell invasion and metastasis and find targeted strategies to block malignant prostate cancer progression.	1052368
General Gastroenterology	1052521
Botox, Chemical Peels, Collagen, Cosmetics Surgery, Excisional Surgery for atypical moles, Fat Transplantation, Laser Surgery, Liposuction, Melanoma Surgery, MOHS Surgery for the removal of basal and squamous cell cancers	1052551
Medical education, faculty development, effective teaching and learning, education measurement and evaluation
	1052573
Botox, Collagen, Cosmetic Surgery, Excision of atypical moles, Fat transplantation, Glycolic Peels, Laser Surgery, Liposuction, Melanoma Surgery, MOHS Surgery	1052633
consultative cardiology, echocardiography, women's cardiovascular health	1052665
Epidemiologic studies of diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular disease, fitness, and autonomic function.	1052726
Prion proteins are capable of existing in multiple stable conformations, at least one of which is infectious. It is generally accepted that prion (PrPSc) is the responsible agent for the devastating neurodegenerative disorders known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies or prion diseases. Our laboratory is interested in using yeast and other model organisms to understand how a prion protein acquires its infectious prion conformations and how such conformations are maintained in vivo. Our ultimate goal is to dissect the initiation and propagation processes of prionogenesis, and to identify important cellular factors required in each of these processes
	1052740
I currently have three primary lines of research interests.  
Gymnastics Functional Measurement Tool (GFMT): The GFMT is a reliable and valid field test for assessing the physical fitness levels of high level gymnasts.  We are currently researching its ability to be a predictor of gymnastics injury.
Varus Thrust at the knee:  I am currently developing a simple clinical measure to assess varus thrust at the knee in osteoarthritis patients.
Performing Arts:  I am currently looking at the jump landing mechanics in professional dances in an effort to decrease knee injuries.
	1052793
developmental neurobiology
molecular diagnostics
clinical pathology
Research Interests <BR> <BR>
Our major research interest is understanding the factors that control cell proliferation and differentiation in the developing mammalian central nervous system. Although the mechanisms that regulate cell proliferation during neural development are poorly understood, studies in other tissues suggest that loss of normal cell polarity and tissue architecture play crucial regulatory roles in cell proliferation and cancer. Our most recent work suggests that beta catenin, an integral component of the adherens junction, can regulate cell cycle re-entry and differentiation in the developing mammalian brain. Transgenic mice expressing a truncated, stabilized form of beta catenin develop massively enlarged brains with increased cerebral cortical surface area and folds resembling sulci and gyri of higher mammals. Understanding the biology of epithelial organization can lend insight onto the regulation of proliferation during neural development and ultimately reveal mechanisms underlying developmental brain disorders and tumors in the central nervous system.	1052813
Dr. Jacobsohn is an attending in the Stem Cell Transplant Program at Children's Memorial Hospital.  He is actively involved in clinical research in the area of stem cell transplantation.  His main interests are graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and reduced intensity transplantation.  He is involved in the conduct and design of novel clinical trials to prevent and treat graft-versus-host disease.  For example, he currently heads a national, multi-institutional trial, through the Pediatric Blood and Marrow Transplant Consortium, to treat children with chronic GVHD with pentostatin.  Dr. Jacobsohn is also leading a novel transplant protocol at Children's Memorial Hospital that utilizes photopheresis post-transplant to prevent graft-versus-host disease.  In addition, he is involved with the NIH Consortium for Chronic GVHD, specifically leading an effort to design and validate grading criteria for pediatric patients on chronic GVHD clinical trials.  He has numerous publications in the field of stem cell transplantation and GVHD.	1052862
Airway Management, Cardiothoracic Anesthesiology, Regional Anesthesiology	1052876
Religion and Bioethics. Fertility Preservation. Genetic Medicine.
	1052935
Approximately 60-70% of breast cancer patients who have died or are dying of breast cancer have bone metastases.  Therefore, resolving the mechanisms of metastasis to bone is of critical importance in breast cancer research. Laminin-1 (a1ﬂ1ø1), a major basement membrane matrix glycoprotein, is involved in both normal and neoplastic breast biology, and enhances adhesion, migration, and metastasis of tumor cells. Laminin-1 is cleaved in the tumor environment and peptides of laminin-1 alter the behavior of tumor cells. AG73 (LQVQLSIRT, a-1 chain 2719-2731), is one of these peptides that affects tumor growth and metastasis. MDA-231 breast cancer cells adhere to AG73 and A4G82 (control peptide, TLFLAHGRLVFM, a-4 chain 15141525). This adhesion is inhibited by heparin but not EDTA, suggesting these peptides bind to tumor cells through heparin/heparan sulfate proteoglycans but not through integrins. In addition, MDA-231 cells bind to a recombinant globular 4 domain of the laminin-a1 chain, the domain where AG73 is located; however, the cells do not bind to the recombinant globular 4 domain that has a mutated AG73 site (RKR-AAA). AG73, but not A4G82, significantly increases brain and bone metastases of MDA-231 breast carcinoma cells in an intracardiac metastasis model.  The tumors in the bone of these mice treated with AG73 were also larger than the control group. These results are intriguing since AG73 and A4G82 both interact with the cells in a similar manner, suggesting that the increased brain and bone metastasis is specific to AG73. Additionally, these results indicate that AG73-mediated increased brain and bone metastasis may be biologically relevant. Gene array analysis is now being used to identify genes which are up- and downreguglated by AG73 in MDA-231 breast cancer cells. The ultimate goal is to identify genes which regulate breast cancer metastasis to bone and brain for potential diagnostic and therapeutic treatments.
	1053088
Microbiology/Virology <BR><BR>
Molecular diagnostics, mechanisms of bacterial antibiotic resistance	1053089
I am interested in signal transduction in cancer biology, development of new strategies for cancer prevention and identification of novel targets for better treatment. Currently my studies are focused on different pathways in
response of keratinocytes to ultraviolet (UV) irradiation and development of novel chemopreventive agents against UV-induced skin cancer.	1053305
I work on modeling complex systems with an emphasis on biological and social systems. I am interested in understanding the relationship between the network of interactions between the units of the system and the function the system wants to perform. 

In the case of biological systems, I am interested in developing systems level phenomenological theories for cellular processes that are generalizable and have predictive power. 

In the case of social systems, I am interested in understanding the scientific process, how high quality research arises and how to locate and evaluate high quality research. 
	1053382
Research:Project to Improve Symptoms and Mood after Spinal Cord Injury (PrISMS)
Five year, multi-site double-blind randomized control trial
2006-present
Clinical: Medical psychiatry including consultation for and treatment of psychiatric conditions in the setting of co-occurring medical conditions such as spinal cord injury, stroke, cancer, organ transplantation. Forensic psychiatry, both civil and criminal issues, including malpractice, disability, competency, and mitigation.
	1053420
General Surgical Pathology and Urological Surgical Pathology
Diagnosis of genital urinary cancers including prostate, bladder, kidney, testis and other GU organs
Immunohistochemistry<BR><BR>

Pathogenesis of prostate cancer, kidney cancer and bladder cancer
Identification of new molecular markers of GU cancers
Solid tumor banking for biological studies	1053660
Mood Disorders, Depression, Treatment and Outcome, Remission, Treatment of Depression Subtypes.
	1053762
My area of academic interest focuses on pediatric neurocritical care especially as it pertains to epilepsy, status epilepticus, coma, brain injury, and neurophysiology.	1053859
Dr. Catalona is currently conducting research into the genetics of prostate cancer which could lead to new tests for the disease as well as possible new means of treating or preventing prostate cancer. He specializes in prostate cancer surgery and is recognized as an expert in performing the "nerve-sparing" radical prostatectomy that can preserve sexual potency.	1053905
Disability Research
	1053924
My lab has two main research lines: one is cellular neurophysiology, with particular emphasis on the mechanisms of action potential generation and propagation and on the role of dendrites in post synaptic signal integration.
The second research line of the lab focuses on the role of ion channels in neurological disease, and in particular on the central (brain) mechanisms mediating chronic pain. 
	1053946
I am a scientific annotator working mainly on the dictyBase database, whose goal  is to provide the scientific community with a centralized resource containing all the information available about Dictyostelium discoideum. I analyze and annotate genes of the Dictyostelium genome, which includes: verifying and modifying gene models, descriptions and classifications of the biological roles, molecular functions, and subcellular localizations of predicted and known gene products using the Gene Ontology (GO) controlled vocabulary, adding links to literature information, classifying phenotypes, and cataloging Dictyostelium strains.  

I also work on biomedical ontologies: I work on the Gene Ontology and have developed the Dictyostelium Anatomy Ontology (Gaudet et al, 2008, BMC Genomics. 18;9:130. PMID: 18366659).




	1053987
non-Hodgkin lymphoma, etiology, diet, obesity, pesticides, lifestyle factors, chromosomal abnormalities, molecular epidemiology, gene-environment interactions


	1054108
I am interested in ethical issues associated with conducting large-scale genetic research including consenting, data sharing, privacy, return of results, recontact and education of research participants. 
	1054111
Interferon signal transduction, MAPK signaling, CML, MDS, myeloproliferative disorders, cellular proliferation and apoptosis signaling, cytokine signaling  

	1054143
I am interested in Neonatal-Perinatal medicine particularly in respiratory diseases and nutritional needs of the term and preterm newborn.
	1054166
Spinal cord stimulation is a fascinating modality for treatment of chronic pain which is finding new applications in medicine, yet the physiology of the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglion is not comletely elucidated in this milieu. Chronic abdominal pain and other intestinal disorders are being treated with spinal cord stimulation with increasing success. I am investigating predictive factors of success for applications of spinal cord stimulation, as well as changes in cytokines and other inflammatory markers with the use of stimulation in a variety of disease syndromes.
In addition, chronic low back pain from intervertebral disc disease and degeneration remains a challenging syndrome to diagose and treat effectively. We are investigating a newer diagnostic system, or functional analgesic discography (FAD), to accurately diagnose discogenic pain and predict treatment outcomes.   
	1054182
Co-P.I. for SHAPE study evaluating use of gastric pacemaker for obesity (21 patients implanted at NMH)- Transneuronix is sponsor
	1054188
obesity/weight management, nutrition in chronic diseases, diabetes
	1054188
Hospital based treatment of children and adolescents
	1054309
leukemogenesis, NUP98-HOXA9, AML, MDS, CD45-AP, CD45, PTP, signal transduction, hematopoiesis, nucleoporins	1054320
Psychiatry, genetics, schizophrenia
	1054404
T cells, immunology, skin, NKT cells, signal transduction, tyrosine kinases	1054412
My laboratory research has focused on noninvasive prenatal genetic diagnosis using fetal cells and nucleic acids in maternal blood.

I also have an interest in medical ethics as related to prenatal genetic screening and diagnosis and reproduction.
	1054599
My interests include mental health treatment and evaluation of children and adolescents, especially those involved in the justice system. I am also interested in the development of antisocial behaviors and substance abuse, as well as disproportionate minority confinement and racial/ethnic disparities in HIV/AIDS risk and infection. 	1054782
My research focuses on several related areas: 
1) quality improvement for outpatient care of cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus including changing the healthcare delivery system and patient communication,
2) the way patient knowledge and attitudes influence health behaviors in chronic illnesses such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease, and
3) issues surrounding the measurement of healthcare provider performance for public accountability.	1054853
My primary research interests include medical education, curriculum design and career development with residency and faculty learners. I am also interested in education and research driven practice improvement in the care of emergency department patients with palliative and end-of-life care needs.

	1054857
The laboratory research of Serdar E. Bulun, MD, focuses on studying estrogen biosynthesis and metabolism, in particular aromatase expression, in hormone-dependent human diseases such as breast cancer, endometriosis and uterine fibroids. A team of investigators works on understanding the epitheial-stromal interactions and aromotase overexpression in breast cancer tissue. Since aromatase inhibitors treat breast tumors primarily via suppressing intratumoral estrogen biosynthesis, these efforts are important for discovering new targets of treatment. Another team studies endometriosis. Basic data from this laboratory led to the introduction of aromatase inhibitors into endometriosis treatment. Human tissues and a primate model are used to elucidate cellular and molecular mechanisms responsible for the development of endometriosis. Regulation of aromatase expression is also studied in uterine fibroids, benign tumors that are dependent on estrogen for growth, by a third team. A fourth team is investigating the link between progesterone action and estrogen inactivation in normal endometrium and endometriosis. Lastly, a fifth team has identified novel mutations that cause familial excessive estrogen formation syndrome. This syndrome is characterized by short stature, gynecomastia, and hypogandism in males and early breast development and irregular menses in females. In this syndrome, heterozygous inversions in chromosome 15q21, which cause the coding region of the aromatase gene to lie adjacent to constitutively active cryptic promoters that normally transcribe other genes, result in estrogen excess owing to the overexpression of aromatase in many tissues.
	1054860
Autopsy   Sub-specialty Hematology, Sub-specialty Transfusion Medicine  <BR><BR>
Hematology, Transfusion Medicine	1054986
Alcohol and prescription drug abuse among college students; Sexual assault	1055017
zebrafish, glypican, Wnt, morphogenesis, developmental biology, heparan sulfate proteoglycans	1055051
Hypertension, diabetes, migraine, women's health, medical education
	1055143
I research the basal ganglia, a group of subcortical brain nuclei that are important for voluntary movement and the primary site of pathology in movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease.
	1055145
Dr. Rosenow is the Director of Functional Neurosurgery in the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine Department of Neurosurgery and at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. He specializes in the treatment of movement disorders such as Parkinsons disease, tremor, and dystonia, as well as the surgical treatment of epilepsy and chronic pain. He works as part of a coordinated multidisciplinary team that includes physicians in neurology, neurophysiology, neuropsychology, neuroradiology, physical therapy, speech pathology, and social work.
My research revolves around restorative neurosurgery. This includes neurostimulation (deep brain, cortical, transcranial magnetic), brain-machine interface (both cortical chip and EEG-based), and gene therapy methods. Our group currently has active projects investigating cortical-basal ganglia interactions in Parkinson's disease patients with externalized deep brain stimulating electrodes as well as computer modeling of both cortical-basal ganglia interactions and novel paradigms of deep brain stimulation.  We are also involved in a project using an animal model of neuropathic facial pain to discern and refine motor cortical stimulation for facial pain. We have an active protocol for transcranial magetic stimulation for recovery for brain injury. Another area of interest is image-guided surgery. We pioneered frameless deep brain stimulation surgery and have several projects investigating new methods of intraoperative localization and navigation.	1055267
Family health and mental health, impact of chronic illness on the family, biological and psychological measures of stress, health disparities


	1055282
As the tracheostomy specialist for the medical center, tracheostomy management is a key research interest.  Other research interests include exercise programs to prevent venous thrombosis and other sequelae related to critical illness, and a new method of training for critical care nurses.	1055316
Risk factors and outcomes of traumatic illness, racial disparities in trauma, intimate partner violence
	1055329
Brain Tumors, Spinal Cord Tumors, Neurologic Complications of Cancer	1055338
Development of clinical trials for primary brain tumors, brain metastases, leptomeningeal metastases.	1055338
Study of the mechanisms underlying atrial fibrillation. We are currently investigating the autonomic profile of the the pulmonary veins and the rest of the left atrium in a canine model, especially as it relates to the genesis of atrial fibrillation. Our laboratory is also investigating the mechanisms underlying atrial fibrosis (and resulting substrate for atrial fibrillation). 	1055434
Osteoporosis, Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Inflammatory myositis, Clinical Outcomes


	1055441
My primary research interest is the interface between cognition and emotion. This includes the relationship between mental illness and memory, attention, and other cognitive processes. I am also interested in applied statistics and the application of psychometric theories to the development of better measurement tools for use in health research.	1055487
Dr. Huang's research interests lie in functional genomics. A main focus of his research has been on identifying novel biomarkers for disease disgnosis and prognosis. He is also interested in integrating bioinformatic and epidemiological/clinical data resources to accelerate translational discovery.	1055505
nutrients, diet, trace elements, lifestyle factors, cardiovascular diseases, stroke, obesity, metabolic syndrome, nutrition, epidemiology.
	1055535
Synapses, plasticity, learning

	1055581
Kinesin motors drive intracellular transport of many different cargoes along microtubules, and they are critical to trafficking in the nervous system as well as cell division.  Antimitotic drugs that act on two kinesin motors, Eg5 and CENP-E, are currently in phase I and II clinical trials.  Several kinesin motors, including Eg5 and CENP-Em, are intrinsically regulated in the cell by their C-terminal tail domains. Our laboratory's work is inspired by the fact that there appear to be multiple, highly effective mechanisms that nature has developed for regulating kinesin kinesin motors. Our hope is that once we understand these natural regulation mechanisms, they can be mimicked to develop new and better antimitotic drugs, resulting ultimately in a larger number of treatment options. 
	1055613
Antimicrobial Resistance, Antimicrobial Utilization, Nosocomial Infections, Geriatric Infections, MRSA
	1055794
Clinical responsibilities include inpatient general infectious diseases consultation and outpatient HIV and general infectious diseases care.  
Research projects include:  MRSA colonization in HIV-infected individuals; Antimicrobial utilization in hospitalized elderly population; Evaluation of surveillance methods to identify surgical site infections following total hip arthroplasty.	1055794
My research interests lie in the epidemiology of heart failure and sudden cardiac death in patients with heart failure. My research is funded by grants from the National Institutes of Health and the American Heart Association.	1055878
Breast cancer, oncogenes, tumor suppressors, p16, pRB, p53
	1055931
Obesity in children
Health Care in Underserved Populations	1056003
hematopoietic and mesenchymal stem cell biology, blood and marrow transplantation	1056004
Our laboratory is interested in a range of issues related to the development, physiology and pathology of the "neurovascular unit" (NVU) (neurons, vessels, pericytes, astrocytes). We also devise new approaches to study at high spatio-temporal resolution, cellular interactions within the NVU, using optical imaging techniques such as two photon microscopy, genetic tools and experimental disease models
	1056039
In my lab we are interested in delineating the molecular mechanisms of progesterone action through its receptor, PR in the uterus.  This is done in the context of normal endometrial differentiation, specifically, decidualization, as well as in uterine pathologies, such as endometriosis, endometrial cancer and uterine fibroids.  Specifically, we are interested in studying PR function in relation to other signaling pathways and transcription factors.  	1056043
Dr Carla Pugh is currently Assistant Professor of Surgery and Director of the Center for Advanced Surgical Education at Northwestern University. She also holds an appointment in the School of Education at Northwestern.  Dr. Pugh has a broad interest in the use of technology for medical and surgical education.
http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=18939055


	1056074
John A. Martin, MD, is Associate Professor of Medicine and Surgery, Director of Endoscopy, and Medical Director of the Gastroenterology Laboratory and Endoscopy Unit in the Division of Gastroenterology at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine and Northwestern Memorial Hospital. His clinical, research, and medical education efforts and interests are focused in endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), advanced interventional endoscopy, surgical endoscopy, hepato-biliary disorders, pancreatico-biliary diseases, transplantation surgery, natural-orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES), and the development of novel endoscopic devices for advanced therapeutic endoscopy, as well as interdisciplinary investigation of new advanced multimodal molecular imaging technologies in the laboratories of Drs. Khashayarsha Khazaie and Elias Gounaris. He is also involved in interdisciplinary study, application, and validation of new simulation models and devices for use in endoscopic training and education. With Drs. Nathaniel Soper and Eric Hungness in the Department of Surgery, he is co-founder of the Northwestern NOTES Investigation Group commenced in 2006. In 2007, he initiated the third-tier, fourth year fellowship program in Advanced Therapeutic Endoscopy at Northwestern.

Dr. Martin is a graduate of the University of Virginia College of Arts and Sciences and of the University of Virginia School of Medicine. He served his internship and residency at the University Hospitals of Cleveland, Case Western Reserve University. He received his fellowship training in Gastroenterology and Hepatology at the University of Pittsburgh, where he concentrated in pancreatico-biliary disorders, hepatobiliary disorders, and therapeutic endoscopy. He then undertook third-tier fellowship training in advanced interventional endoscopy under the direction of Dr. Gregory Haber and Dr. Norman Marcon at The Wellesley Hospital, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Dr. Martin was appointed to the faculty at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine in July, 1997. He joined the faculty of the Division of Gastroenterology at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine in 2003.	1056153
Transplant rejection and tolerance
	1056183
autism, epigenetics, epilepsy, Rett syndrome, Angelman syndrome, 


	1056185
Dr. Lloyd-Jones research interests lie in cardiovascular disease epidemiology, risk estimation, and prevention. A main focus of his research has been investigation of the lifetime risks for various cardiovascular diseases, and factors which modify those risks. Other areas of interest include CVD risk estimation using novel biomarkers, imaging of subclinical atherosclerosis, and the epidemiology of hypertension. His clinical and teaching interests lie in general cardiology, with a focus on prevention.	1056270
Dr. Soper's research interests have revolved around the applications of minimally invasive surgery for gastrointestinal disease, laparoscopic ultrasound, alternative treatments for gallstones and motility of the gastrointestinal tract. More recently he has been involved in the early clinical experience with Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES).
	1056312
Preschool children with behavioral and emotional problems, anxiety disorders, parent training, developmental assessments for educational and treatment planning

	1056446
Primary interests center around investigations into immunologic correlates of fatigue in individuals with multiple sclerosis and chronic fatigue states. Also interested in immunologic correlates of disease in individuals with MS.	1056465
The major focus of our laboratory is to elucidate the mechanism of signal transduction by which nuclear receptor and associated coactivators regulate gene expression in tissue/cell specific manner. To understand the biological role of nuclear receptors and coactivators, our lab is using genetically modified (transgenic and gene knock-out) mouse models of novel coactivators which are identified and characterized in our lab and study their biological significance in mammalian development and various diseases like obesity, diabetes and cancer.	1056593
muscle, contractility, cardiac function, troponin, calponin, transgenesis, gene targeting, protein structure-function relationship	1056682
Dr. Scandrett works primarily at a subacute and long-term care nursing facility near Northwestern Memorial Hospital.  Her clinical and research interests include care quality and improvement, and helping individuals maintain their quality of life in long-term care.  	1056693
Dr. Schleimer has a longstanding interest in the mechanisms of action of glucocorticoids in allergic diseases.  Past studies have ranged from translational investigations in human subjects to molecular biological assessment of glucocorticoid action.  Mechanisms of the pathogenesis of allergic diseases including asthma, rhinosinusitis, dermatitis and others have also been an area of investigation.  Recent studies have focused on the role of airway epithelial cells as integrators of responses in the airways, including inflammation, innate immunity and adaptive immunity.	1056697
Multiphoton Microscopy of living cells and tissues.  See NINDS P-30 grant.
	1056714
I am developing non-invasive transcranial brain stimulation as an adjuvant to lower and upper limb movement therapy following stroke. Adjuvants include transcranial magnetic stimulation, transcranial direct current stimulation, and spike-timing dependent plasticity which uses transcranial magnetic stimulation paired with electrical stimulation of a peripheral nerve.
	1056726
My lab is interested in how cell-cell adhesion and differentiation are controlled and coordinated by the multifunctional protein, beta catenin. In particular, we are interested in how the signaling form of beta catenin becomes activated, and how phosphorylation modulates beta catenin's various functions.  Molecular insights into the fine regulation of beta catenin signaling and adhesion will be relevant to pulmonary fibrosis and cancers.	1056845
My research centers on understanding mechanisms of cell-cell adhesion, and how adhesive information is conveyed to the cell's interior.  We focus on the cytoplasmic protein, b-catenin, which plays essential roles in both intercellular adhesion and nuclear signaling.  At the cell surface, b-catenin binds the cytoplasmic domain of cadherin-type adhesion receptors, which allows cells to engage their neighbors through robust intercellular adhering junctions.   In the cytoplasm and nucleus, a cadherin-independent pool of b-catenin transduces extracellular Wnt signals by interacting with TCF-type transcription factors to activate target genes. The Wnt/b-catenin signaling cascade activates genes that allow cells to adopt particular identities throughout development.  In adult tissues, activation of this pathway maintains the 'progenitor' phenotype, while inhibition of this pathway promotes differentiation.  In the lung alveolus, type 2 epithelial cells are thought to give rise to type 1 cells, but the signaling mechanisms which drive this process remain poorly defined.  We reason that modulation of Wnt/b-catenin signaling controls type 2 differentiation into type 1 cells, and experiments are currently underway to address this hypothesis.  Defining the signaling pathways that control AT2 maintenance and differentiation may aid our understanding of the pathophysiology of pulmonary fibrosis and COPD.
	1056845
Richard C. Meagher, Ph.D. is Associate Research Professor in the Division of Hematology/Onocology and Director of the Cell Therapy Processing Facility at the Feinberg School of Medicine.  Dr. Meagher‚¨"s primary research interests include the role of the hematopoietic microenvironment (stroma) on the regulation of proliferation and differentiation of stem cell progenitors and precursors, especially the role it plays in directing the immune arm of the hematopoeitic system.  In addition, Dr. Meagher has studied the mechanisms of action of hematopoietic growth factors and cytokines and the control they exert on stem cell precursors.  These interests have led him to develop novel translational methods and procedures for the collection and long-term cryopreservation of human stem cell sources including bone marrow, peripheral blood progenitors and umbilical cord blood cells.  He is currently investigating novel replacement agents for dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) that is considered the gold standard for cryopreservation of human blood products intended for clinical transplantation.  	1056853
Valve Repair/Replacement, Mitral Valve Repair, Atrial Fibrillation Surgery, Maze Procedure, Aortic Aneurysm, Coronary Bypass Surgery, Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy / Myectomy, Minimally Invasive Surgery 
	1056890
The innovation of pediatric specialty clinicians has extended the lives of children with complex medical needs, neurological impairment, and technology dependence.  However, our systems of care have diffulty meeting the complex needs of this emerging population.  Challenges lie in coordination of care through a vast contiuum that includes hospital systems, primary care, home health, etc.  My interests lie in defining this population of patients; studying their needs on a clinical and systems level, and advocating for quality improvement.  A new area of focus is the potential for electronic health information exchange, now a national priority, to faciliate the coordination of care for these patients.  
	1057063
Clinical interests included Mood and Anxiety disorders in adults and older adults, as well as the evaluation and treatment of the behavioral and psychological symptoms of Dementia.	1057152
Clinical outcomes for thyroid cancer, hyperparathyroidism, and adrenal tumors including pheochromocytoma and adrenal cancers.
Decision analysis.
Cost-effectiveness analysis.
Database analysis.

	1057436
Dr Naidech's primary research and clinical interests include life threatening neurologic diseases such as intracerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, status epilepticus (continual seizures) and traumatic brain injury. In-house custom databases allow prospective recording of clinical events and functional outcomes. Administratively, he is a Co-Medical Director of the Neuro/Spine ICU at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. 
	1057622
Research is focused on studying the disease processes underlying chronic prostatitis/ chronic pelvic pain syndrome as well as inflammation in the human prostate.	1057699
I am interested in Pediatric pulmonology, specifially looking at cystic fibrosis and interstitial lung disease. I am also interested in lung function testing from birth to adulthood. I also have an interest in Healtcare Quality and outcomes reasearch.	1057718
Health disparities, immigrant health, cross-cultural communication, behavioral interventions for chronic disease 

	1057749
health-related quality of life, symptom evaluation, functional status, primary care
	1057754
Acute heart failure syndromes	1057770
Patient Safety, Cardiovascular Imaging, Cardiology
	1057792
Childhood asthma, food allergies and health promotion 
	1057805
We study the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which memories of stressful events contribute to anxiety- and depression-like behavior.  Specifically, our interest lies in neuronal receptors, signal transduction pathways and gene responses mediating: (i)  formation and extinction of aversive memory; (ii)  delayed enhancement of fear memory in the aftermath of stressful experiences; (iii) social modeling of fear; and (iv) the relationship between aversive memories and depression.  Our long-term goal is to elucidate the key brain mechanisms linking cognitive and emotional processes and identify novel targets for treatment of anxiety and depression.	1057813
Dedicated to the care of hospitalized patients.  Additionally works as the Assistant Medical Director of Clinical Information Services for Northwestern Memorial Hospital.	1057824
TRANSPLANT IMMUNOLOGY, ANTIGEN PROCESSING AND PRESENTATION, Humoral Immunity

	1057832
Denys T. Lau, Ph.D., joins the Buehler Center on Aging, Health & Society as Assistant Professor and Director of Health Services Evaluation and Policy Research Section. As a health services and outcomes researcher, Dr. Lau applies various types of quantitative and qualitative research methods to study the quality and safety of health services provided to older populations.
	1057874
<BR><BR>
Our laboratory is investigating the response of keratinocytes to ultraviolet (UV) irradiation. We are investigating the role of JNK, p38 and ERK signal transduction pathways in response of cells to UV light and have recently demonstrated that JNK enzyme co-associates with p53 protein and p21Waf cyclin inhibitor. Other studies in the laboratory focus on development of novel chemopreventive agents against UV-induced skin cancer. Apigenin is a plant flavonoid which has been shown to inhibit UV- and chemically-induced mouse skin tumorigenesis and we believe it shows promise for development as a protective agent against human skin cancer. We have demonstrated that apigenin induces G1 and G2/M cell cycle arrest in keratinocytes and other cell lines by inhibiting both accumulation of cyclins and the cyclin dependent kinase activities of cdc2p34 and cdk2. We have also demonstrated that apigenin induces expression of the cell cycle inhibitor WAFp21 in a p53-dependent manner, and that the half-life of p53 protein is extended, due to stabilization via site-specific phosphorylation. Experiments are underway to characterize the kinase(s) involved in p53 phosphorylation. Our laboratory is also investigating the mechanisms by which apigenin inhibits UV-induction of the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) pathway, an enzyme important for prostaglandin production and cell transformation. Experiments are underway to characterize transcription factors which are involved in UV-induction of COX-2 and which may be modulated by apigenin treatment.	1057897
Clinical interests: 1- Outcomes after Solid organ transplantation in Hispanics 2- Health communication and literacy in Solid Organ transplantation 3- Quality of Life in Solid Organ transplantation


	1058027
Preventive health, health care disparities, immigrant health, cancer care, communications
	1058057
Our research focuses on the pathogenesis and treatment of fibrosis. We focus on the  interplay between vascular and autoimmune/inflammatory events in pathological fibrosis.  Our clinical research is focused on the development and evaluation of novel treatments for scleroderma, in using functional genomics to identifying novel biomarkers, and in identifying the genetic bases for fibrosis and systemic sclerosis.	1058111
scleroderma, tgf-beta, fibroblast, pulmonary hypertension, myofibroblast, collagen, systemic sclerosis, scar
	1058111
Areas of interest include heart failure, heart transplantation, ventricular assist devices, disease management programs, quality of life, psychosocial outcomes, patient adherence with therapeutic regimens, patient decision-making, and caregiver burden.	1058170
Dr. Jordans work spans several areas, including quality and cost of care for persons with chronic illnesses, financing and outcomes of mental health and child welfare services, and health economics.	1058191
Dr. Michelsons research interests include end-of-life decision making, palliative care, and ethics. Currently, her research focuses on communication and decision making in end-of-life care among patients, family caregivers, and professional caregivers in the pediatric intensive care unit.	1058291
My research focuses on understanding how the human brain transforms odor inputs into olfactory percepts (such as the smell of mint, banana, or wet dog), and how learning, memory, and experience modulate odor perception at the neural and behavioral levels. To address these questions we use a combination of techniques including high-resolution olfactory functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), multivariate statistical analyses, psychophysical paradigms, and physiological recordings.  Given that patients with Alzheimers disease (AD) exhibit profound impairments in the sense of smell, I am also investigating whether olfactory fMRI techniques can be effectively used as a non-invasive diagnostic biomarker to identify asymptomatic individuals at risk for developing AD.

	1058311
Our lab is interested in the effects of oxygen on cell metabolism, and in the molecular mechanisms underlying cellular oxygen sensing.  The signaling pathways activated by hypoxia, and their regulation of transcriptional and post-translational responses in diverse cell types are also of major interest.
	1058513
neuroscience
	1058524
Coinvestigator. A study looking at strain, strain rate, and changes in left ventricular volumes and geometry with 3D echocardiography in patients with chronic valvular regurgitation and in patients with valvular regurgitation before and after surgery.

Coinvestigator. A study looking at strain, strain rate, and myocardial viability with dobutamine stress echo in patients with congestive heart failure before and after placement of biventricular pacemaker for resynchronization therapy.

MADIT-CRT, coinvestigator. Will be overseeing and directing the acquisition of echocardiogram studies for all recruited patients in our center.

	1058585
As a certified sex therapist, I treat a wide range of sexual disorders, including problems with desire, arousal and orgasm, as well as pain disorders, sexual compulsivity and paraphilias. As a clinical psychologist I also treat individuals and couples with relationship problems, depression and anxiety.
	1058594
My research interest focuses on the role of acetyltransferase p300 in collagen synthesis and tissue fibrosis. Excessive synthesis and deposition of extracellular matrix proteins especially Type I collagen in the tissues causes fibrosis. TGF-beta stimulates collagen synthesis and has been implicated in fibrosis. We recently demonstrated that i) acetyltransferase p300 is essential for TGF-beta-induced collagen synthesis, ii) TGF-beta induces the levels of p300 in fibroblasts, and iv) most importantly, p300 level is significantly elevated in fibrotic tissues. We are interested i) to determine the molecular basis of elevation of p300 in fibrotic tissues, ii) to determine the contribution of elevated level of p300 in the development of fibrosis, and iii) to develop novel therapeutic approaches to control tissue fibrosis  	1058614
Dr. Schink has been a principal investigator on several clinical trials related to ovarian cancer, specifically on chemotherapy for the treatment of ovarian cancer.  Currently, Dr. Schink is working on a number of gynecologic oncology projects, including a clinical trial involving treatment for patients with stage III or stage IV ovarian epithelial cancer.  This particular study is a multi-center clinical trial to test the capabilities of three different combinations of chemotherapy drugs.  The three combinations will be compared based primarily on the survival of patients, but also on the incidence of toxicity and the quality of life of the patients.  The goal of Dr. Schink's project is to find the most effective treatment for women with late-stage ovarian cancer.  






	1058663
Mitochondrial transport, preconditioning, ion transport
	1058670
Neuropathology <BR><BR>
Molecular genetics of brain tumor (by FISH)	1058681
Our research focuses on pathologic mechanisms of asthma. We use in vivo mouse models involving allergen sensitization of wildtype, transgenic and gene knockout mice. We also use classical genetic studies to identify asthma susceptibility genes in mice and we focus on mucosal immunity, specifically the role of secretory IgA in asthma. We augment these in vivo studies by studying the responses of cultured normal human primary airway epithelial cells to the effects of allergic mediators. 

Experimental measurements include in vivo airway physiology (the development of airway hyperresponsiveness to bronchoconstrictors), lung inflammation, airway goblet cell hyperplasia (excessive mucus production), sub-epithelial fibrosis (excessive collagen), and airway smooth muscle increases in mass or contractility. We use quantitative RT-PCR (Taqman) to measure expression of genes. We use computer-assisted stereology to quantify pathologic changes observed in sections of mouse lungs. We use ELISA to measure protein levels of specific mediators in mouse lung lavage samples and serum. We perform gene expression studies in cultured normal human primary airway epithelial cells.
	1058758
My primary research interest is centered on tumor cell and extracellular matrix (ECM) interactions associated with cancer progression. These studies involve analyzing how tumor cells affect/alter their ECM, as well as respond to their changing environment using in vitro model systems based on an underlying concept of dynamic reciprocity. 
	1058781
metabolic syndrome, cholesterol, lipids, menopause, CVD

	1058800
cytoskeleton, motor proteins, cell movement, microtubules, actin, kinesin, dynein, myosin, neurodegenerative diseases
	1058964
Dr. Laumann's clinical interests include the diagnosis and treatment of complex  medical dermatologic disorders including collagen vascular, psychocutaneous, and genital diseases. She has a particular interest in fibrosing, pruritic and other disorders related to renal dysfunction, as well as Raynaud's syndrome. She has an ongoing interest in the various aspects of the application of body art and how this may be used to help functioning. Currently, she is involved with other research studies related to hand dermatitis, psoriasis, and smallpox vaccination development for those with  atopic dermatitis.



	1058994
Immunosuppression Withdrawal for Pediatric Living-donor Liver Transplant Recipients.
Currently a Co Investigator in a study sponsored by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health.
                        				
The primary objective of this study is to determine the proportion of participants successfully withdrawn from immunosuppression and to measure the outcome of immunosuppression withdrawal.

	1059008
Comparative medicine and pathogenesis, preclinical testing and toxicology, nanotoxicology	1059041
Epithelial cells, which are positioned at the line of first exposure to many pathogens, regulate both innate and adaptive immunity through production of functional molecules and via physical interactions with cells of the immune system. We are currently investigated on the epithelial factors which activate and/or regulate immune cells. We are also focusing on the pathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis.	1059090
Functional and molecular imaging application on radiation treatment planning
	1059114
Gastroesophgeal reflux disease;
Esophageal motility;
Mathematical modeling;


	1059149
1. Genomics for Kidney Transplantation - a collaboration to find genetic predispositions to various clinical outcomes in transplantation.

2. Non-invasive diagnosis of renal allograft rejection - Urine based assays for mRNA to diagnose rejection and predict outcomes.

3. A randomized controlled trial of Rituximab vs. Placebo for treatment of de novo donor specific antibodies detected post renal transplant.	1059178
Living Kidney Donation, Highly Sensitized and incompatible patients, acute renal failure, humoral allograft rejection
	1059178
Gregory B. Waypa, Ph.D. received his B.S. in Biomedical Engineering Sciences from the University of California, San Diego in 1991.   He then enrolled as a graduate student at Albany Medical College in Albany, New York, where, under Fred L. Minnear, Ph.D., he studied increased pulmonary vascular permeability associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and explored the possibility of using cAMP-enhancing agents as a possible therapy for the disease.  Dr. Waypa received his M.S., and later his Ph.D., in Physiology and Cell Biology from Albany Medical College in 1997 and 1998, respectively. From 1998 to 2002, Dr. Waypa was a postdoctoral fellow with Paul T. Schumacker, Ph.D. at The University of Chicago.  In 2002, Dr. Waypa received an appointment from The University of Chicago as a Research Associate (Assistant Professor) where he continued to work with Dr. Schumacker.  In 2004, Dr. Waypa received an appointment from Northwestern University as a Research Assistant Professor where he is continuing his collaboration with Dr. Schumacker.  Currently, Dr. Waypa is studying hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV), which is a physiological response to low alveolar oxygen tension and, in cases where a small percentage of the lung alveoli are hypoxic, HPV improves lung gas exchange by redistributing blood flow away from those areas toward regions with better oxygenation.  Key to this research is understanding the mechanism of O2 sensing by the pulmonary vasculature and how this results in the generation of the HPV response.
	1059267
cell cycle, knockout mice, breast cancer, cyclin, diabetes, pituitary, development, reproductive biology	1059270
Research interests include: Efforts include (1) basic biophysical mechanisms contributing to oxygen-sensitive contrast in MRI; (2) fast imaging methods to detect and stage coronary artery disease; (3) development of MR-based methods to understand and evaluate the mechanisms governing ischemic heart failure; (4) utilization of interventional MRI methods for delivering therapeutic substrates (stem cells, growth factors, etc.) following myocardial infarctions; and (5) development of MR molecular imaging methods in the assessment of cardiovascular disease.	1059361
Dr. Lebowitz is the founder and director of Cardiac Behavioral Medicine at the Bluhm Cardiovascular Institute at Northwestern. She is a licensed clinical health psychologist specializing in the heart-mind connection. She works exclusively with cardiac patients and helps them prepare for surgery, adjust to a new diagnosis, and cope with common emotional consequences of cardiac disease or cardiac surgery, including stress, depression, and anxiety. She teaches stress managment techniques, treats cardiac-related depression and anxiety and helps individuals initiate and maintain lifestyle changes to reduce their risk of heart disease.  Her research interests focus on the interplay between depression, stress, and cardiac health.   


	1059611
My research activities focus mainly on asthma. Asthma exacerbations are mostly precipitated by common cold viruses. I am interested in elucidating the early mechanisms of respiratory viral infections that determine the severity of exacerbations in people with asthma. In addition, in collaboration with Dr. Esteban G. Burchard, M.D. from the University of California San Francisco and other investigators accross the US and abroad, we participate in a network of centers studying the genetic and environmental factors that influence the development and the severity of asthma in minority groups. Other research interests include pathogenesis of airway inflammation in allergic rhinitis and in asthma, and research in primary immunodeficiencies.	1059636
Dr. Welty's research interests are in applications of statistics to psycho-social, medical and environmental sciences.  In particular, she is interested in the formulation of statistical models for outcomes correlated over time and space, and the associated challenges in estimating these models.  Dr. Welty collaborates with the Psycho-Legal Studies program as part of the Northwestern Juvenile Project.  She has experience with longitudinal data, survey statistics, environmental statistics, and spatial statistics.	1059640
Diabetic Nephropathy, Albuminuria, VEGF, TGF-beta, mouse models	1059840
I work in the field of diabetic kidney disease, specifically looking at the role of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and podocytes in the pathogenesis of albuminuria. We have made some exciting discoveries that are being pursued with genetic mouse models.	1059840
Models of allergic disease, food allergy, atopic dermatitis, asthma	1059841
We are interested in the mechanisms that regulate allergic sensitization. Using mouse models of allergic diseases, such as asthma, eczema and allergy to food, our research is focusing on how histamine and histamine receptors might influence the progression of allergic sensitization.	1059841
Research in my laboratory is focused on understanding the synaptic circuit organization of motor cortex. A major interest is in applying optical-electrophysiological tools for mapping synaptic pathways in brain slices, with the goal of obtaining a quantitative wiring diagram description for the connectivity matrix of local circuit pathways. We also apply these tools to identify and characterize synaptic circuit abnormalities in mouse models of neurological diseases, including MeCP2 deficiency (Rett syndrome) and other autism spectrum disorders.

	1059844
Skin toxicities, chemotherapy, targeted agents, rash, paronychia, EGFR, side effects
	1059894
Surgical Pathology<BR><BR>
The long-term objective of our research is to study molecular mechanism and chemoprevention of chronic inflammation-driven carcinogenesis. The specific areas of interest are 1) to develop a molecular mimicking model of ulcerative colitis-associated carcinogenesis in rodents, and further to elucidate the role of inflammation-caused and dietary iron-enhanced nitro-oxidative stress and inflammatory mediators in DNA damage, cell proliferation and inflammation-driven carcinogenesis; 2) to study the pathogenesis and molecular biomarkers of pancreatic carcinoma in genetically engineered mouse model and in human; and 3) to develop an efficient strategy on the prevention of chronic inflammation-driven carcinogenesis, particularly interested in dietary nutrients, antioxidants, green tea and inositol compounds and specifically targeted on colorectal, pancreatic, and liver carcinogenesis.	1059904
i am particularly interested in family and marital therapy and clinically am interested in childhood anxiety disorders and the autistic spectrum disorders.
	1060189
My interests include osteoarthritis of the knee and hip and how dynamic loading (such as gait) can effect progression of the disease.  

	1060317
<BR><BR>
My research interests are in the relationship between diet and cancer, particularly focusing on elucidating the role of dietary iron on inflammation-driven carcinogenesis in a molecular mimicking model of ulcerative colitis associated carcinogenesis in IL-2 deficient mice. I am also working on developing efficient chemopreventive agents in the inhibition of ulcerative colitis associated carcinogenesis. I am particularly interested in dietary nutrients, antioxidants, and green tea.	1060325
Mucosal Innate and adaptive immunity 
	1060327
My research interests center on the immunological mechanisms involved in infectious and allergic diseases. My previous studies have ranged from investigations of infectious diseases in tropical endemic areas to molecular diagnosis and translational science. The shared mechanisms of pathogenesis between allergic and infectious diseases have been an active area of investigation. Recently, I have focused on epithelial cells biology and their role in inflammation, innate immunity and adaptive immunity.	1060327
Recently, Dr. Buttin received a two-year award from the Sidney Kimmel Foundation for Cancer Research for her work studying molecular mechanisms that influence cell growth and metastasis in an aggressive subtype of endometrial cancer, uterine papillary serous carcinoma (UPSC). She has authored several research articles on the role of defective DNA mismatch repair and hereditary cancer susceptibility in endometrial cancer focusing specifically on the MSH6 DNA mismatch repair gene.  Her current basic research includes the elucidation of pathways of carcinogenesis in uterine papillary serous carcinoma, its association with inherited cancer syndromes, as well as the prevalence of defective DNA mismatch repair in type II endometrial cancer.  Her clinical research focuses on the elucidation of shared risk factors for endometrial and colon cancer and biomarker development for high risk endometrial cancer.  Dr. Buttin has a special interest in novel chemotherapy and targeted agents for endometrial, cervical and ovarian cancer, treatment strategies for uterine sarcomas, as well as the role of radical surgery and minimally invasive surgery in the management of gynecologic malignancies.





	1060364
My interests include: 
- Adults with congenital heart disease with arrhythmias, particularly, which type of device (pacemakers/defibrillators) is indicated in patients to prevent sudden cardiac death.
- Management of arrhythmia in patients of all ages, from fetal arrhythmias to adult congenital patients.
- Catheter ablation.
- Utilization of resynchronization in single ventricle patients and in patients with cardiomyopathy.
- Screening athletes and patients on ADHD medications.
- Prevention of sudden death in congenital central hypoventilation patients.	1060466
My primary clinical and research area focuses on infections in transplant recipients.  My research is futher focused on viral infections, specifically respiratory viral infections (influenza, adenovirus) in transplant recipients.
	1060531
I am currently a hepatologist with a strong interest in liver transplantation & complications. My main research interests are minimization or withdrawal (tolerance) of immunosupression and infection complications	1060566
Infectious disease, liver transplantation, immunosuppression, cirrhosis, bacterial infections, intestinal permeability



	1060566
health risk behaviors, health promotion, behavioral treatments, e-technology, obesity, smoking cessation, tobacco use, depression, adherence	1060618
The overall goal of my research program is to understand the mechanisms of mammalian reproduction, in particular, how germline stem cells, meiosis and gamete differentiation, are regulated in mammals, using combined genetic, development and evolutionary approaches. We work with both mouse and Drosophila systems as well as cell culture to characterize the roles of highly conserved components of regulatory machinery for stem cell and reproductive development. We are also interested in translational research which extends our findings from animal models into reproductive medicine, in particular in our battles against reproductive cancers and infertility.	1060619
My academic interests involve medical education, specifically the use of simulation-based training to improve clinical decision-making, teamwork, and communication. A particular focus is effective debriefing strategies to enhance reflective practice both in the context of simulation as well as clinical settings.
	1060635
Cognitive-Behavioral and Mindfulness- and Acceptance based Behavioral therapies for depression and anxiety disorders in adolescents and adults. Cognitive-behavioral stress management for multiple sclerosis and pain.



	1060674
Principal Investigator of the St. James Women Take Heart Project

Principal Investigator of STILETTO (Syndrome X Trial: Identifying underLying Endothelial dysfunction and Testing Treatment Outcomes in women) Study	1060686
CT and MR imaging of the central nervous system including the brain and spinal cord.
Advanced neuroimaging techniques including CT and MR perfusion, time-resolved MR angiography, CT angiography, CSF flow imaging, and functional MRI.
Spine procedures including myelography, vertebroplasty, diskography, image-guided biopsy, and steroid injections.
Cerebral angiography	1060688
My clinical areas of interest is peri-operative quality of care of the cardiac and thoracic surgical patients.
My primary areas of research interest are the control of breathing, peri-operative metabolic disorders, critical care outcomes, and resuscitation.
My primary areas of education include curriculum design and problem-based learning discussions.	1060922
Dr. Sheeans research goals are to combine clinical nutrition and epidemiology. Her general interests include evaluating nutrition therapies during illness, treatment and recovery, where she has specifically focused on the impact of parenteral nutrition on stem cell transplant outcomes and on enteral nutrition during critical illness. She is especially interested in translation research; exploring the impact of hospitalization on nutritional status and nutrition behaviors and increasing the recognition of these acute declines across disciplines. Dr. Sheean is also a Research Editor for the Journal of the American Dietetic Association and assists with the coordination and implementation of medical nutrition education at the Feinberg School of Medicine.





	1060934
ENDOTHELIAL CELL FUNCTION DURING ALLERGIC DISEASE.

Leukocyte migration from the blood into tissues is vital for immune surveillance and inflammation.   Specificity for the site of leukocyte migration is determined by the combination of adhesion molecules, cytokines and chemokines in the microenvironment. 

We have focused on the function of the endothelial cell adhesion molecule VCAM-1.  VCAM-1 is expressed on endothelial cells during atherosclerosis, allograft rejection, infection, and asthmatic responses. Furthermore, disruption of the mouse VCAM-1 gene impairs placentation and cardiac development resulting in embryo death.  Thus, VCAM-1 has important functions in development and disease.  As little was known regarding VCAM-1 signaling, we studied the molecular mechanisms for VCAM-1 signal transduction in endothelial cells in vitro and in vivo.

Although it has traditionally been thought that VCAM-1 simply serves as a scaffold for leukocyte binding to endothelium, we have reported that it activates endothelial cell intracellular signal transduction pathways which result in endothelial cell shape changes and leukocyte passage. VCAM-1 activates endothelial cell NADPH oxidase resulting in the generation of low non-toxic levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS).  These ROS rapidly stimulate endothelial cell-associated  matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) which are required for VCAM-1-dependent lymphocyte migration. We have also demonstrated that in vivo administration of the antioxidant bilirubin blocks VCAM-1-dependent leukocyte migration into the lung in experimental asthma. 

Currently, there are two main research directions.  
1. We are examining mechanisms for VCAM-1-stimulated activation of endothelial cell NADPH oxidase, including studies of the structure/function of the cytoplasmic tail of VCAM-1.  We are also examining the mechanisms for ROS function in regulating endothelial cell intracellular signals.
2.  To further determine whether these VCAM-1 signals function in vivo, we are utilizing knockout and transgenic mouse models to examine VCAM-1-dependent infiltration of eosinophils in experimental asthma.  Pulmonary eosinophilia is one of the most consistent hallmarks of asthma. 

Information about the mechanisms that control leukocyte infiltration will provide a basis towards proposing interventions in VCAM-1-mediated processes in disease.    Moreover, limiting VCAM-1 dependent inflammation in chronic disease may be an advantageous target as it could spare VCAM-1-independent inflammation such as neutrophil clearance of infections.
	1061090
Regulation of gene expression, chromatin structure, human genetics, cystic fibrosis, pancreas cancer.	1061208
Russell G. Robertson, MD, is professor and chair of the Department of Family and Community Medicine at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.  He joined the Feinberg Schools leadership in October 2005.  He holds a B.A. in elementary education from Michigan State University and an MD from Wayne State University.  He completed his family medicine residency in Grand Rapids, Michigan before joining the Medical College of Wisconsin (MCW) in Milwaukee.  He was recruited from MCW, where he had served as interim chair of the Department of Family and Community Medicine and most recently as the associate dean for faculty affairs.  He began his professional career as an elementary and junior high school teacher in suburban Detroit.

Dr. Robertson was one of 17 physicians nationwide appointed to the Council on Graduate Medical Education by the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services in 2003.  Now chair of the Council since 2008, Dr. Robertson and his fellow members advise Congress and the Department of Health and Human Services on issues related to physician supply and distribution.  In this capacity he has been invited to serve on a number of national and international workforce bodies.

Dr. Robertsons interest in medical education has evolved to an international level.  He is the Associate Director for Global Education for Northwesterns Center for Global Health.  He also serves as president of the board of Hillside Healthcare International, which supports a clinic in Punta Gorda, Belize, Central America.

Dr. Robertson also holds a certificate of added qualification in geriatrics.
	1061219
Dr. Yerkes primary concentrations are reconstruction of complex genitourinary anomalies, medical and surgical management of neurogenic bladder, disorders of sex development,  hypospadias, and congenital vaginal anomalies and urogynecology.	1061501
Dr. Chaviano's clinical concentrations include pediatric urologic reconstruction, hypospadias, hydronephrosis and fetal urology.	1061503
Psychosomatic medicine: psychiatric issues in those with co-occurring medical illnesses
	1061575
Dr. Rothrocks research interests include psychosocial aspects of chronic illness, psychosocial oncology, quality of life, patient-provider communication, and distress and symptom management. 	1061598
Understanding the group dynamics and interpersonal processes in group decision-making as it relates to IRB and IACUC review and approval processes.  Development of effective programs for the protection of human subjects.  Research on attitudes about spirituality and religiosity in psychology graduate students as well as graduate students in other health sciences, and research on training programs in multi-culturalism as they relate to spirituality in the clinical domain.	1061682
Dr. Keefer is an NIH-funded investigator with a research interest in the application of behavioral interventions to chronic gastrointestinal diseases including Ulcerative Colitis, Crohns Disease and Irritable Bowel Syndrome.  	1061719
I am funded by the NIH to design and test behavioral interventions for gastrointestinal disorders, including Inflammatory Bowel Disease (Ulcerative Colitis, Crohns Disease) and Irritable Bowel Syndrome.
	1061719
Primary research interests include any rehabilitation topics involving brain injury and stroke survivors.	1061813
My clinical and research pursuits have focused on improving health-related quality of life (HRQL) in people with cancer, neurological disorders and other chronic medical conditions (e.g., Spinal Cord Injury, Traumatic Brain Injury, Burn/Orthopedic Injury, COPD, Sarcoidosis, HIV, Coronary Heart Disease). Specific interests include stress reduction and CAM-based interventions in oncology, self management support interventions using health information technology, and developing patient reported outcomes measures in HRQL, disease symptoms, coping/adjustment and resilience. I was the Principal Investigator on a 1-year hospital funded Pilot Grant to examine HRQL and self management support preferences in a prostate cancer sample and am currently the Principal Investigator of a hospital-funded RCT examining the effects of a mindfulness-based stress reduction intervention for men diagnosed with prostate cancer who are on active surveillance. I am the site Principal Investigator on two NIH-funded grants (NCI: Reflexology for Women with Advanced Breast Cancer; NCMRR: Quality of Life for SCI Clinical Trails: Development of the SCI-QOL;). In addition, I serve as a Co-Investigator on an NINDS-funded study (Neuro-QOL; PI: D Cella) to develop patient reported outcomes measures for neurology clinical trials research. Since 2003 I have led a mindfulness-based stress management class at Evanston Hospital for people with chronic medical conditions and their caregivers.	1061814
The primary thrust of our research team has focused on studies to identify the basic biological processes that regulate adaptation of malignant tumor cells to stressful environments, such as those produced by anti-cancer drugs, and thereby permit their survival in the presence of agents that would normally kill them. Understanding these processes will help cancer researchers develop novel chemotherapeutic strategies. Our group has directed our recent attention to the understanding of cancer cell behavior and in particular on the molecular basis underlying resistance of neuroblastoma cells to chemotherapy.


	1061843
The Molecular Basis of Wilms' Tumor

The Sprouty  Proteins

The Molecular Biology of Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia

The Molecular Basis of Multiple Myeloma

Molecular Basis of Myeloproliferative Disease	1061875
Injury prevention and treatment in military recruits
	1061890
I am a Research Assistant Professor in Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, with the research focuses on age-related eye disease, such as age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy.   I am an advanced degree professional in this field by virtue of the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Ophthalmology from Weifang Medical College and Peking University, respectively. Recent growth in clinical and translational research has heightened the need for a competent clinical research workforce in industry and academia. I am currently in the Graduate Certificate Program in the School of Continuing Studies-Clinical Research and Regulatory Administration. 	1061909
Neural degeneration, glial responses, signal transduction, gene expression profiling, genetic susceptibility, optic neuropathy,transcriptional regulation. 
	1061921
Elizabeth R. Ryan, Ed.D. graduated from Loyola University of Chicago with a doctorate degree in Education in May 2006.  She has worked in both family medicine and surgical education, holding administrative staff positions in both graduate and undergraduate programs, from April 1995  February 2006.   Dr. Ryan contributed to the Department of Surgerys redesign of the undergraduate and graduate program curriculum; was an invited member of the Department of Surgerys Think Tank Consortium; is a Co-Leader for Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicines Community Engagement and Service Competency; is the Teaching Selective Course Director; and the Co-Course Director for Patient Physician and Society IV.  Dr. Ryan joined the Department of Family and Community Medicine faculty as an Assistant Professor and the Vice Chair of Education in March 2006.


	1062000
Surgical Pathology	1062103
Epigenetic control of Cytomegalovirus(CMV) immediate early gene transcription during establishment of latency and reactivation from latency.	1062105
The primary research is in the field of neurophysiologic monitoring during cerebral aneurysm surgery in particular and neurophysiologic monitoring in head and spine surgeries in general.	1062189
My area of interest is in health care disparities research and I serve as the principal investigator for a number of national studies examining quality of care for diverse populations. I am currently an investigator for the Robert Wood Johnson Foundations national initiative, Aligning Forces for Quality, and  lead the disparities/equity component of this project. In addition, my research focuses on quality of care in the health care safety net.	1062414
My research is focused on the mechanisms and prevention of sudden unexplained death in epilepsy (SUDEP). I am also interested in cortical plasticity and functional mapping in patient undergoing epilepsy surgery. 
Outside of epilepsy, I am involved in clincal care and research of musicians with medical problems related to their instrument, in particular focal task specific dystonia. 
	1062886
I am interested in research involving novel technologies in neurosurgery.	1062956
neural-machine engineering, myoelectric control, EMG modeling, biomedical signal processing, Bioelectromagnetism

	1062975
Dr. Simon's primary research interests are aimed at eliminating health disparities among low income, medically underserved women across the lifespan.  Integrating health services research with social epidemiologic models, Dr. Simon's research focuses on interventions (such as patient navigation and community health outreach workers) that aim to reduce and eliminate such disparities.  Within this context, Dr. Simon prefers to leverage culture and community to achieve these goals and thereby integrates community based participatory research framework into her work.	1063005
My primary academic/clinical interest is in quality, information systems, patient safety, care-pathways and administrative medicine relating to; creating/supporting evidence-based approaches to patient care, establishing standards, developing process/protocols to support the standards and globally reducing multidisciplinary practice variance. 	1063045
Jason Kane is an Attending Physician in the division of Pediatric Critical Care Medicine at Childrens Memorial Hospital and an Assistant Professor of Pediatrics at Northwestern Universitys Feinberg School of Medicine.  He graduated from the Medical College of Rush University in Chicago, completed his training in Pediatrics at Indiana University and Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis, and attended the Medical College of Wisconsin and the Childrens Hospital of Wisconsin in Milwaukee where he completed his Fellowship in Pediatric Critical Care.  In 2009, Doctor Kane obtained his Masters of Science Degree in Patient Safety and Healthcare Quality from Northwestern University.  Doctor Kanes primary clinical focus is cardiac intensive care where he is responsible for directing the recovery and ICU management of children who have undergone open-heart surgery to repair congenital heart defects.  His research interests include pediatric patient safety, healthcare quality, and near-infrared spectroscopy monitoring in the intensive care unit.	1063096
My research interests revolve around the neural mechanisms supporting selective attention and cognitive control, and their interaction with motivational/emotional factors.
	1063149
Dr. Fangusaro has a primary expertise and training in treating children with central nervous system tumors.  His primary area of research interest is in the development of clincal trials and novel therapeutics in an effort to improve outcomes and minimize toxicities.  
	1063212
The research of the Economics of Movement group shows that movement and movement learning are similar in many respects. Our Sensors (Eyes, Ears, Skin etc) are not perfect but are noisy. Moreover, our muscles are noisy and if we try to do the same movement over and over it will be different each time. This means that if we make a movement, say swing a golf club, we will have uncertainty in the potential movement outcomes. Our group studies how people make movement decisions in the presence of such uncertainty. Our research has three main thrusts. (1)We study experimentally how people move and how their movements are affected by uncertainty.
  (2) We build computational models using Bayesian statistics to calculate how people could move optimally or learn to move optimally.
   (3)We build Bayesian Algorithms to solve problems that we find interesting. For example we analyze how neurons are connected in the nervous system. 

The main thrust of our current research is to allow for better rehabilitation procedures through an understanding of motor learning.

	1063230
Our laboratory is interested in understanding the mechanisms by which energy homeostasis is differencially regulated in males and females and how does this influence the risks of obesity and diabetes. We currently focus on identifying the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which estrogens and androgens program and regulate energy metabolism in a gender-specific manner. We use genetic, physiological, molecular, and pharmacological tools to study mice with conditional knockouts of the sex steroid receptors as well as cell culture models in highly controlled environments.  Our goal is 1) to obtain a better understanding of the biological processes at the root of diabetes and obesity and the role of gender in this process 2) to determine whether modulating estrogen/androgen actions in a tissue-specific manner can have a therapeutic impact on diabetes and obesity.	1063244
I am examining issues relating to neuromusclular control of voice pitch and volume. I am also examining the use of novel carbon dioxide laser technologies in the surgical management of laryngeal and trachel pathologies	1063334
My clinical interests encompass all of general obstetrics and gynecology, including well-woman care, obstetric care, office procedures, contraception, and management of abnormal bleeding, to name a few.

My research projects focus on delivery of health care and patient outcomes. The large obstetric volume at Prentice Women's Hospital allows us to perform large, high-quality studies to answer important questions about pregnancy and delivery care.  We recently completed a large study looking at epistaxis (nose-bleeds) during pregnancy, and found that women with more nose bleeds were more likely to suffer excessive bleeding at delivery. We are now embarking on a new study to learn what factor or factors are responsible for this bleeding tendency. In another project, we are looking at women with infections during labor (chorioamnionitis) to create a scoring system that allows us to predict which women will become septic. I am also interested in the social and psychological aspects of reproduction and childbearing, and currently have one project looking at what women know about aging and fertility, and another project looking prospectively at obsessive-compulsive disorder in pregnancy and postpartum.	1063382
Major depression, affective neuroscience, translational research, treatment for mood disorders


	1063384
My main interest is in Community Medicine and Health disparities. My clinical practice is at a community health center in the Northwest side of Chicago. I also have an interest in Global Health. 
	1063452
Lynette Craft, PhD is a Kinesiologist and her research interests focus on the relationships among physical activity and mental and physical health.  Specifically, Dr. Craft examines the use of structured exercise interventions to reduce symptoms of depression and improve quality of life.  In addition, she investigates the potential mechanisms underlying these relationships.   She has examined these associations in several patient populations such as individuals with clinical depression, cancer survivors, and smokers attempting smoking cessation. A secondary interest in her current work is identifying the psychosocial factors that predict exercise adherence in these various groups.	1063472
Sonya Rasminsky is the Director of Medical Student Education in psychiatry at Northwestern Feinberg School of Medicine. She sees patients for psychotherapy and medication management.  Her clinical interests include women's mental health and student mental health.
	1063490
Medical Director of Consultation-Liason and Emergency Services
Dept of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry

Clinical interests include the recognition and treatment of delirium in medically hospitalized patients. 
	1063635
Glucocorticoids are the most frequently prescribed medicine today and they are indispensable in the treatment of asthma, inflammation, and cancer.  However, two concerns regarding glucocorticoid use remain unresolved.  One is that high-dose or long-term glucocorticoids result in troublesome side effects such as metabolic syndrome and osteoporosis; the other is that some patients do not respond to glucocorticoids.  

We tackle both questions by examining the glucocorticoid receptor.  Translational isoforms of glucocorticoid receptors were recently discovered in our lab and they provide insights into the mechanisms of action of glucocorticoids.  Ribosomal shunting and leaky scanning processes generate translational glucocorticoid receptor isoforms. These receptor isoforms have distinct cell-killing and cytokine-suppression capabilities in a bone cancer cell model system.  Currently, we are identifying and characterizing the receptor isoforms in different populations of immune cells in diseases such as asthma and cancer.

This line of research has implications in several other fields in addition to immunology and oncology.  For instance, our findings in glucocorticoid receptor biology have significant impact on research in endocrinology as well.
	1063665
My research focuses on the utilization of agent-based modeling for multi-scale modeling of acute inflammation. Agent levels include cells and molecules, with the goal of simulating organ- and organism-level behaviors from these generative mechanisms. While the focus of my models have primarily been on the pathophysiology of sepsis and multiple organ failure, in a more general sense I am interested in using agent-based modeling as a means of dynamic knowledge representation to augment the biomedical research process. With respect to acute inflammation, the ubiquitousness of the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms suggest the application of this methodology to such area as oncogenesis, transplant immunology/rejection, autoimmune disease, wound healing/scarring, atherosclerosis and aging. I am currently using NetLogo as my primary agent-based modeling platform, but am involved with the development of SPARK (Simple Platform for Agent-based Representation of Knowledge http://www.pitt.edu/~cirm/spark/ ) currently being done at the University of Pittsburgh. I am also interested in automated text analysis/information extraction from biomedical texts, formal knowledge representation in biomedicine and the development of methods for evolving biomedical ontologies. These goals form a "front-end" to high-level modeling tools (such as MetaABM http://www.metascapeabm.com/ ) and are intended to facilitate the ability for biomedical knowledge to be represented, communicated and evaluated via executable models. I am also involved in projects directed at developing methods to execute ABMs on massively parallel computing platforms. I believe this is a vital development necessary for true, multi-scale, biologically relevant simulation.
	1063829
neurocritical care, status epilepticus, subarachnoid hemorrhage, neurogenic respiratory failure, intracerebral hemorrhage, Guillain-Barre syndrome, central nervous system infections, clostridial diseases, bioterrorism
	1063851
My primary interest is developing and evaluating technology-assisted behavioral and psychological interventions.  I am also interested in the relationship between stress, depression and inflammation, particularly in multiple sclerosis.	1064120
Angina, Heart Failure, Claudication, Critical Limb Ischemia, Stem Cells, Angiogenesis, Regenerative Medicine	1064217
Mechanisms of normal and malignant blood cell development

	1064279
Research in the Crispino lab is focused on investigating the regulatory mechanisms governing normal and malignant blood cell development, with an emphasis on understanding the growth of erythroid cells (red blood cells) and megakaryocytes (platelet-producing cells). In addition, we are greatly interested in learning how changes in normal essential regulatory molecules lead to human blood diseases, including leukemias, myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and myeloproliferative diseases (MPD). 

	1064279
I am interested in the mechanisms of neuronal and glial lineage specification from neural progenitor cells during normal development and after injury.	1064357
Our research is dedicated to bring molecular advances in the pathogenesis and therapy of human brain tumors to clinical application. Our laboratory aims to identify new therapeutic leads for patients with high-grade gliomas and to develop tools that allow predicting an individual patients likelihood to benefit from a certain treatment regimen. Our work integrates complex molecular tumor data generated by the complementary and iterative application of data-driven (genome-wide analysis) and hypothesis-driven research approaches and corresponding clinical patient profiles.
	1064405
My graduate training in clinical psychology reflected my strong interest in the assessment of the affective and cognitive sequelae of medical illness. Over the past several years, I have become increasingly interested in the development of psychometrically robust, patient-reported outcome (PRO) tools in the hopes that such assessment will lead to improvements in patient quality of life, clinical care and health care policy. While I have experience in PRO research in neurological illness and cancer, I have been increasingly interested in the development and application of PROs in the post-surgical context, especially with respect to organ transplantation.





	1064439
My research interest is to evaluate the effects of genetic and environmental factors as well as gene-environment (GxE) interactions on complex human diseases, with a particular focus on allergic diseases and preterm birth.	1064445
The main focus of my research program is to study breast and prostate cancer progression. Our starting point is a gene named MASPIN, a unique member of SERPIN family that plays roles in normal tissue development, tumor metastasis, and angiogenesis. Genetic studies by my laboratory using maspin transgenic and knockout mice demonstrated an important role of maspin in normal mammary, prostate, and embryonic development.  Recently, we have identified several new properties of maspin. As a protein that is present on cell surface, maspin controls cell-ECM adhesion. We believe that this function is responsible for maspin-mediated suppression of tumor cell motility and invasion. We have also discovered that maspin is involved in the induction of tumor cell apoptosis through a mitochondrial death pathway. The long-term goals of our maspin project are to elucidate the molecular mech¨anism by which maspin controls cell adhesion and apoptosis, and to analyze the effect of maspin on mammary gland and other tissue development, and to study the effect of loss of maspin on early mammary lesions and late stage tumor progression. We believe that these analyses are not only important for basic biology and but also may lead to a therapy for cancer and other developmental diseases.
	In addition to the maspin project, my laboratory has also established mouse mammary tumor models to study the unique process of tumor metastasis in particular. For example, we have established a new mouse mammary tumor cell line, which spontaneously metastasizes to the bone upon inoculation to the mammary fat pads of BALB/c syngeneic mice.  Comparison of gene expression profile between highly metastatic tumor cells and non-metastatic cells by Affymetrix microarray has identified a list of candidate genes, which might play roles in breast cancer bone metastasis. We have also used these animal models for gene therapy. These studies will likely open new directions for cancer treatment in the near future.

	1064580
Research interests 
Dr. Hous research focuses on the roles of lifestyle, environmental/occupational exposure, and
molecular factors in the etiology and prevention of cancer and other chronic diseases. 
Dr. Hou has been conducting studies examining the relation of DNA methylation, genetic 
variations, telomere shortening with the risk of prostate cancer and gastrointestinal cancers.	1064642
CURRENT RESEARCH INTERESTS
1 )  To understand molecular mechanisms and signal transduction involved in the inflammatory cytokines (e.g. TNF-alpha)-induced dysfunction of endothelial cells (EC) in cell culture model system and the mechanisms of cytokine regulation on the healing of endothelium in vivo in moue models of carotid artery denudation (equivalent to balloon angioplasty in patients). We have established that locally secreted TNF acts to inhibit endothelial recovery leading to restenosis, partly via inducing cell cycle arrest in ECs (Kishore, Circulation Research 2002, 2003; JCI, 2005),although complete molecular mechanisms and signal transduction pathways involved therein are yet to be deciphered. Understanding of EC gene regulation may potentially help finding target molecules whose modulation can nullify deleterious effects of TNF. Another component of this project involves elucidating trans-factors involved in posttranscriptional (mRNA stability) regulation of TNF by anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 (Rajasingh, Kishore, FASEB J, 2006).
2)  To understand the molecular and signaling mechanisms governing directed differentiation of mouse embryonic (Rajasingh, Circulation Research; 2007) and adult stem cells and oocyte-independent means for the de-differentiation of adult somatic cells to generate stem-like cells and to assess the therapeutic efficacy of these cells towards tissue repair in mouse models of surgically induced myocardial infarction and other ischemic injuries.
3) To study and understand the role of long-term alcohol consumption (chronic alcoholism) on cardiovascular system. Chronic ethanol inhibits cell survival signaling by various mechanisms, including but not limited to the enhanced release of TNF and other pro-inflammatory cytokines. Our studies indicate that in vitro chronic ethanol exposure exerts inhibitory effects on EC proliferation and survival (Luedemann, Kishore, Alco Clin Exp Res, 2005; Rajasingh, Kishore, Endocrinology, 2007). Chronic ethanol not only elevates agonist-induced TNF expression in EC but also exacerbates TNF-mediated EC dysfunction, synergistically. Our current studies are focused toward understanding the biology of ethanol-induced EC dysfunction in ethanol-fed rodent models as wells as towards understanding the underlying molecular mechanisms in cell culture model system.
	1064657
Working with children suffering from diminished daily school and social performance as evidenced, perhaps in ADD/ADHD, perhaps relating to allergy, or both, by attempting to objectively quantify clinical findings through computerized performance testing (MMAT technology). 

	1064699
Within the field of Otolaryngology, my area of interest and exertise is in head and neck surgery specifically for cancer.  I am particularly interested in trans-oral endoscopic removal of tumors, as well as reconstructive surgery following tumor removal including free tissue transfer.

	1064839
My primary interest is pediatric airway obstruction and pediatric upper airway reconstruction specifically laryngomalacia and its surgical treatment - supraglottoplasty.  My interest also include the medical and surgical treatment of pediatric obstructive sleep apnea.  	1064942
I have a primary interest in the evaluation of assessment and reduction of risk for harm to self or others; psychic harm; boundary issues; disability; fitness for duty; closed head injury; competence to stand trial; sanity/mitigation in criminal cases; and correctional mental health.
	1064963
Hypochondriasis as psychiatric diagnosis; hypochondria/disease anxiety as a problem for primary care; cultural narratives regarding health/disease and their role in fostering anxiety about disease and about health care. The role of narrative in patients', physicians', and biomedical scientists' thinking about the inside of the living human body. The place of fear and uncertainty in medical epistemology.	1065059
Dr. Richard Lee practices the full spectrum of adult cardiac surgery and has special interests in surgical treatments of atrial fibrillation, mitral valve repair, tricuspid valve repair, and surgical alternatives to heart transplantation. 

	1065061
Dr. Andrew J. Fishman is an Otologist/Neurotologist, Skull Base Surgeon, and Cochlear Implant specialist at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. Dr. Fishman holds an appointment to the departments of Otolaryngology and Neurosurgery at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.   
      He has performed pivotal research with Dr. Claus-Peter Richter M.D. Ph.D. -Director of the Otolaryngology Laser Research Laboratory on laser nerve stimulation for hearing, and clinical research, which ultimately lead to the development of one of the cochlear implant electrodes currently in use today.
    In 2005, he went on a yearlong medical mission to South India, where he developed a Transtemporal Cranial Base Surgery Program at the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS) in the city of Cochin, Kerala. He was appointed as Consultant in the disciplines of Otolaryngology, Head & Neck Surgery and Skull Base Neurosurgery.  During that time, he also worked as a surgical consultant for one of the major cochlear implant companies, training doctors in surgical implantation techniques.      
    In 2007 Dr. Fishman was granted the honorary appointment of International Professor at the Nicolas Copernicus University in Poland for his work in that country over the past 10 years.  Today, he continues to be an active participant in the development of acoustic neuroma, neurofibromatosis II, and skull base tumor surgery in a center which he developed at the University Hospital of Dr Jurasz in Bydgoszcz, making invited visits to lend surgical support and training to the physicians of the Neurosurgery and Otolaryngology Departments.  In 2007 Dr. Fishman organized a joint international surgical mission where he and the members of the Indian Cranial Base Surgery Team from the Amrita Institute came to perform a series of challenging surgeries on patients in Poland with rare and unusual tumors.  Observers were invited from the local area hospitals including the regional NATO medical center.

	1065062
As Associate Director of Surgical Clerkship, interests and research are focused on Curriculum Development and Case-based learning. Thesis research focused on cultural diversity within a community college health career program.  
Clinical background is in Trauma and Emergency Medical Services.	1065069
1. The use of clinical use of echocardiography in pediatric cardiovascular disease. 
2. The use of exercise testing in pediatric cardiovascular disease and the development of a wellness center. 
	1065133
MRI, Functional Neuroimaging, Head & Neck	1065171
Glaucoma Research Coordinator
	1065185
Dr. Lowe has been honored at the national and regional level with several presentations on minimally invasive surgery. His surgical videos have been selected for presentation at national meetings for the American Association of Gynecologic Laparoscopists, Society of Gynecologic Oncologists, and the American College of Surgeons. Additionally, he was one of the first gynecologic oncologists to receive certification on the da Vinci Surgical System and performed the first robotic surgery for endometrial cancer in the Mid-South region of the United States. 




	1065215
Dr. Hos primary interests involve improving the accessibility to mental health services and prevention programs in ethnic minority populations. She is especially interested in exploring new ways to achieve these goals, including how communications technology may be used to promote health and prevent mental illness.	1065270
My lab studies the inflammatory response at the cellular and molecular level.  We are focused on the process of diapedesis, the "point of no return" in inflammation where leukocytes squeeze between tightly apposed endothelial cells to enter the site of inflammation.  We have identified and cloned several molecules that are critical to the process of diapedesis (PECAM (CD31), CD99, and VE-cadherin) and are studying how they regulate the inflammatory response using in vitro and in vivo models.  We have recently described the Lateral Border Recycling Compartment, a novel para-junctional organelle that contains PECAM and CD99 and is critical for diapedesis to occur.

	1065729
Clinical Interests: Musculoskeletal injuries, Sporting Event coverage, mass participation events.

Research Interests: Clinical Operations in the Emergency Department, Patient Satisfaction, Mass participation events, Sports Injuries, Procedural teaching.
	1065776
Clinical interests include percutaneous aortic valve replacement, minimally-invasive aortic valve replacement, aortic valve repair, valve-sparing aortic root replacement, aortic arch repair, endovascular stent-grafts, thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair. Research interests include Marfan syndrome, bicuspid aortic valve, thoracic aortic aneurysm.

	1065793
Fetal echocardiography
	1065796
<BR><BR>
Cytopathology	1065833
My primary interest is in development of vaccine candidates for herpes simplex virus.  I also have projects related to increasing our understanding of immune responses to chronic viral infections and mucosal infections, including herpes simplex.
	1065940
Research interests include hair loss and its impact on quality of life, immunobiology of inflammatory hair loss conditions, impact of diet and nutrition on hair loss.  
Clinical and administrative interests in medical student education, establishing uniform education and testing in dermatology among medical students. 	1065989
Clinical trials in early lung cancer diagnosis and minimally invasive surgical techniques for lung cancer treatment.	1066028
* Inflammatory response in cardiovascular injuries
 * Stem cell biology
 * Signal transduction



	1066072
Incoorporating prevention services to hospitalized patients
	1066173
Sports Medicine
	1066198
I am interested in developing educational tools used for the surgical education curriculum of medical students, residents and fellows. This includes, lecture design and content, as well as the use of simulators for assessment and training. I am also interested in protocol development and implementation as well as patient outcomes research in the surgical ICU.	1066200
Clinical and research interests include thyroid cancer, thyroid nodules and other benign disorders of the thyroid gland, hyperparathyroidism, functional and nonfunctional adrenal tumors, inherited endocrine disorders, and minimally invasive methods of treatment including minimally invasive thyroidectomy and parathyroidectomy as well as laparoscopic adrenalectomy.


	1066201
Dr. Devries specializes in preventive cardiology and noninvasive cardiac testing with echocardiography. 

Prevention interests focus on an integrative approach to treatment emphasizing nutrition and innovative uses of non-pharmacologic therapies-in addition to conventional treatment.



	1066214
Dr. Kim's research interests involve statistical problems that arise in genetics and genomics research. He is particularly interested in developing statistical methods and computational tools to identify genes involved in Mendelian and complex genetic disorders. His work emphasizes the importance of characterizing gene-gene and gene-environment interactions in successfully identifying disease genes. Dr. Kim's research can be applied to various types of experiments, including genomic studies with high-throughput microarray data. His recent work has contributed in understanding the regulation of gene expression in the mammalian eye.	1066217
Dr. Schlossers areas of interest include acne, rosacea, polycystic ovar syndrome, excess hair disorders in women, skin disorders in pregnancy, mucosal disorders and adolescent dermatology.  As the Director of the Womens Skin Health Initiative, Dr. Schlosser leads a team of expert physicians in providing outstanding and comprehensive care in medical, surgical and cosmetic dermatology to women of all ages and stages of life.  She currently sees patients at the Northwestern Medical Faculty Foundation outpatient dermatology clinic and performs inpatient consultations at Prentice Womens Hospital.	1066226
1. Echocardiographic diagnosis of Diastolic dysfunction.

2. Prognosis associated with asymptomatic diastolic dysfunction. Evaluation of the CARDIA study

3. Echocardiographic determinants of Heart transplant rejection

4.Right ventricular area normative data from CARDIA study

5. Prognostic value of Right ventricular area

6. Echocardiographic core lab for MARVEL study	1066309
Diastology, Hypertension, Tissue Doppler Imaging, Echocardiography


	1066309
Traumatic Brain injury
	1066351
We are interested in the functional roles of chondroitin sulfates and chondroitin sulfotransferase genes in mammalian development and disease, including cancer. 	1066379
Dr. Duffecys research background is in behavioral medicine. Her specific interests include methods to improve weight loss as well as using technology to reduce barriers to receiving behavioral and mental health care.	1066395
Clinical and genomic modifiers of cardiac conduction	1066440
Clinical educator in the Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Molecular Medicine	1066455
Regulatory mechanisms of inflammatory and apoptotic responses during pathogen infection and inflammatory disease	1066458
Clinical interest in surgical and non-surgical treatment of Female Pelvic Floor Disorders including pelvic organ prolapse, urinary and fecal incontinence, genitourinary and rectovaginal fistulas, complicated obstetrical lacerations.	1066503
I am interested in the process of communication that occurs between patients, families and providers in the acute care setting. In particular, my focus is on the impact of communication and information exchange on patient satisfaction, comprehension and outcomes following an ED visit. 
In addition, I am very interested in the intersection between emergency medicine and palliative care. I feel that education and training in EM must include an emphasis on quality of life and end of life issues which have traditionally be underrepresented.	1066654
Primary research interests are in the applications of minimally invasive surgery to spine.  Secondary research interest is in stem cell transplantation for spinal cord injury.
	1066664
Hyperoxic Lung Injury and
Gender Differences in Pulmonary Morbidities	1066951
Tumor recurrence and metastasis represent the major causes of cancer related deaths. Studies aimed at understanding how cancer cells grow and spread can help identify novel anti-cancer targets. In the past Dr. Strizzi's research involved the study of mechanisms such as, remodeling of the extracellular matrix and angiogenesis, which play important roles during metastatic spread of cancer cells. More recently his work has focused on the role of embryonic morphogens such as, Cripto-1 and Nodal during tumorigenesis. Both Cripto-1 and Nodal are involved in early development and have been shown to be overexpressed in human cancers including cancer of the breast and cutaneous melanoma. Dr. Strizzi is currently studying how Cripto-1 and Nodal signaling affect differentiation, migration and invasion of cancer cells and identifying molecules and molecular pathways capable of regulating these activities.	1066962
Dr. Evans has expertise in epidemiologic methods, health outcomes, and infectious disease related research. Her past and current research has focused on the secondary complications of persons with spinal cord injury and disorder (SCI&D) and women with HIV. Her major research interests include the epidemiology of infectious diseases and outcomes as related to these infections, and antimicrobial prescribing and its effects on patient outcomes.
	1067116
Epilepsy in children and adults, the pharmacology of anticonvulsant medications, vagus nerve stimulation in epilepsy, epilepsy surgery, the neurophysiology of epilepsy. Intra-operative neurophysiological monitoring.
	1067124
Pneumonic plague is the deadliest manifestation of disease caused by the Category A select agent bacterium Yersinia pestis. Currently, the possible combination of widespread aerosol dissemination and rapid disease progression are of increased concern for defense against bioterrorism with Y. pestis. Unfortunately, there is surprisingly little information on the cellular and molecular processes responsible for Y. pestis-triggered pathology in the lung, particularly in comparison to other forms of disease caused by the plague bacillus. My laboratory focuses on understanding the mechanisms by which Y. pestis specifically causes primary pneumonic plague.  One set of projects in the lab centers on dissecting the mechanisms by which the bacterial plasminogen activator protease (Pla) controls the development of pneumonic plague. These include understanding the interaction of Y. pestis and Pla with the mammalian fibrinolytic and coagulation cascades, the identification of additional host substrates cleaved by Pla that lead to the development of a severe pneumonia, and the means by which Y. pestis regulates Pla expression in the lungs that result in these phenomena. Y. pestis also requires for virulence a type III secretion system to inject a set of six effector proteins directly into host cells. While it has been demonstrated that bacteria lacking the entire system are avirulent and are cleared from the lungs, it is unknown which of the six secreted proteins are required to cause pneumonic plague. Therefore, a second set of projects in the lab are designed to determine which of these proteins are necessary to cause disease during respiratory infection, at what stages during the progression of the infection these proteins are required, what host cells in the lungs are affected, and the effects of these bacterial proteins on pulmonary function.	1067182
Principal Investigator NMH site
Acute Liver Failure NIH sponsored grant. 

Principal Investigator NMH site study name:SANVAR . Completed July 2008
sponsored by DEBIO  	1067233
Interested in diagnosis and treatment of ectopic pregnancy' gynecologic surgical techniques and preinvasive neoplasia if cervix, vagina and vulva	1067235
Research focuses on: 1) evaluating combination psychological and pharmacological treatments for tobacco dependence; 2) characterizing smoker- and treatment-related factors that influence smokers adherence to treatment and likelihood of quitting; and 3) developing an understanding though human laboratory and genetic epidemiologic studies of psychological, biological, and genetic factors that convey risk for smoking persistence. Primary end-point is to decrease risk of tobacco attributable disease through long-term smoking cessation.	1067322
Surgical Pathology	1067420
Microbiology/Virology  <BR><BR>
 am interested in the ecology of infectious diseases, especially those that are zoonotic (transmitted from animals to humans) or involve pathogens that have transmission dynamics strongly influenced by environmental conditions. This type of research requires a wide variety of techniques ranging from basic field studies to molecular epidemiology. Ecologic modeling of these diseases is aided by computerized mapping with geographic information systems (GIS) and much of the data we analyze is acquired by remote sensors on earth-orbiting satellites.	1067451
My laboratory is interested in identifying new biomarkers for psychosis and dementia, using biomarkers to develop new treatment approaches for the disorders, and developing more informative animal models of neuropsychiatric disorders.	1067515
I am mainly involved in uncovering the mechanisms of endoplasmic reticulum stress in regulation of metabolic disorder and hepatocarcinogenesis based on the acyl-CoA oxidase 1 deficient (Acox1-/-), leptin and Acox1 double deficient (ob-/-Acox1-/-), and Promethin deficient (Prom-/-) mice.	1067560
Primary interest is health psychology/behavioral medicine with specific interest in psycho-oncology. 
	1067808
Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum	1067860
Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum
Interests include Cystic Fibrosis (CF) nutruton

	1067861
Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum
Interests include neonatal nutrition


	1067862
Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum
	1067914
Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum 
	1067916
Adjunct Instructor in FSM Nutrition Curriculum	1067917
My major research interests are on identification of molecular biomarkers that are associated with tumor growth and progression in benign and malignant uterine smooth muscle tumors. In addition, I am interested in
characterization of the role of microRNAs in the pathogenesis of benign and malignant tumors in women's reproductive organs through regulation of the target gene expression.	1067927
Dynamics of lateral Border recycling compartment during leukocyte transmigration	1068004
Dr. Vaughan directs a multidisciplinary research group focused on investigating the role of the plasminogen activator system in cardiovascular disease. Active experimental programs are underway at the molecular and cellular level in animals and in humans. Transgenic and knockout mice are used in a variety of studies designed to explore the tissue-specific expression of PAI-1 in vivo and the role of the fibrinolytic system in vascular disease and tissue remodeling. 	1068072
My primary clincial interest is in adult cardiovascular disease.  My practice has focused on the management and treatment of patients with coronary artery disease.  I am also interested in the diagnosis and management of arterial thrombosis.  My research interests align with these clinical interests.  My primary investigative focus is and has been on the mammalian plasminogen activator system and the role this system plays in cardiovascular disease.  We apply a multidisciplinary approach in this effort, and utilize molecular and cellular approaches, as well as animal and human studies.   	1068072
Dr. Komanduri is an Interventional Gastroenterologist. His interests include pancreaticobiliary disease, Barrett's esophagus, and gastrointestinal oncology. His expertise includes: Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography, ERCP, Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS), Endoscopic Mucosal Resection (EMR), and Radio Frequency Ablation for Barrett's Esophagus (RFA). Dr. Komanduri serves as an integral part of the comprehensive GI cancer team.	1068073
Dr. Keswani is an interventional gastroenterologist who focuses on minimally invasive procedures. Clinical interests include the use of endoscopic ultrasound in tumor diagnosis and staging, palliation of gastrointestinal malignancy, pancreaticobiliary endoscopy (ERCP), endoscopic mucosal resection for early gastrointestinal malignancy, and small bowel endoscopy including single balloon enteroscopy. Research interests focus on clinical outcomes of interventional endoscopic procedures including EUS, ERCP, and stent placement.	1068089
Dr. Smith's primary research interests are the neurobiology of empathy in neurodegenerative disorders such as schizophrenia and dementia-related disorders. Dr. Smith is also interested in studying the impact of psychosocial stress on the progression of these disorders.	1068131
Gamma Knife Radiosurgery, Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy, High Dose Rate Brachytherapy

	1068135
Surgical Oncology. Liver/hepatic surgery. Pancreatic surgery. Biliary surgery. Pancreatic cancer, liver cancer, gastric cancer, gastrointestinal cancer.  


	1068180
I have a wide range of clinical interests including ADHD, mood, and anxiety disorders in children and adolescents.  In addition, I am particularly interested in psychiatric education and training. 	1068247
<B>CLINICAL:</B>  Dr. Mandelin provides general rheumatology care, and has an interest in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. His practice philosophy is: <I>"Patients do better if they can participate in their own care, and to do that they need to be given an understanding of their disease."</I> 
<P>
<B>RESEARCH:</B>  Dr. Mandelin conducts basic science research into the disease mechanisms of rheumatoid arthritis, and he participates in clinical trials of new and existing medications for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis.
<P>
Dr. Mandelin also serves as the editor of Division's website and as the liason for our electronic medical records system.	1068287
I specialize in neuropsychiatry, the mental and behavioral disorders due to brain diseases such as epilepsy, movement disorders, dementias, or autoimmune diseases.
	1068449
Dongs lab research interesting focuses on the mechanisms of neurodegeneraton and related disorders. Two on going NIH funded projects are: using a combination of human and mouse genetics to identify novel genes and pathways that give rise to schizophrenia; also using a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimers disease to investigate the relationship and mechanisms between stress and Alzheimers pathogenesis.	1068455
Neurovascular diseases; neurointerventional surgery; development of new devices
	1068527
Toshi Uchida is a clinician-educator in the Division of General Internal Medicine.  Her clinical work in primary care focuses on promoting wellness and outpatient care of patients with complex medical illness.  Her educational work includes clinical skills education, assessment and dissemination.  She is a member of the Research and Education for Academic Achievement (REACH) Team which is developing a practice-based research network through the Northwestern University Clinical and Translational Science (NU-CATS) Institute.	1068542
Hematopathology	1068543
My primary focus is in maternal/child health including high risk obstetrics. My background in public health provides me opportunity to use my statistical knowledge in data analysis and review. I have published and presented papers relating to women's health, pediatrics and obstestrics.



	1068545
<BR><BR>
Surgical Pathology	1068571
My primary research interest interest is in biological markers of neuropsychiatric conditions, including anatomical and neurocognitive endophenotypes of severe mental illnesses such as schizophrenia. Recent projects have used structural magnetic resonance imaging to correlate symptomatology with anatomical changes. Ongoing projects include longitudinal studies of subjects at risk for developing schizophrenia and clinical research into strategies for enhancing cognition in schizophrenia.	1068572
Our group focuses on developing complex biomarkers for neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease, using the tools of computational anatomy developed in conjunction with our collaborators.  To achieve this goal, we develop and implement precise measures of neuroanatomical structure and then relate these measures to cognition, brain activation and specific elements of clinical psychopathology.  One of our primary focuses is to describe changes in any of these measures that may occur during disease progression or treatment.	1068577
In efforts to understand how to prevent sexual transmission of HIV-1, our lab is studying how mucosal transmission occurs in both the male and female genital tracts. Using ex vivo tissue explant cultures, we are able to identify viral particles that have breached the protective layers of the squamous epithelium to reach potential underlying target cells. 	1068651
Dr. Sarah Kinsingers background and training is in health psychology and she has experience providing cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) interventions to a variety of medical populations, including cancer, obesity, acute rehabilitation, and gastroenterology.  Her research interests include the influence of partner support on adjustment to illness, sexual functioning following cancer treatment, and coping with chronic illness.  Dr. Kinsinger is also experienced in using CBT to treat depression and is approved by the Beck Institute of Cognitive Therapy and Research to provide CBT.   
	1068691
Global Health/International Health, Tropical Medicine	1068950
Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery including orthognathic surgery, microneurosurgical reconstruction of trigeminal nerve injuries, temporomandibular joint surgery, distraction osteogenesis, alveolar cleft repair, neonatal distraction osteogenesis for airway management (e.g. Pierre-Robin sequence), endoscopic-assisted maxillofacial surgery, maxillofacial trauma, dental implants and reconstruction of alveolar ridge defects and sinus augmentation, and extraction of wisdom teeth.
	1068982
I am primarily interested in treating benign and malignant diseases of the colon and rectum.  I have a particular interest in pelvic floor disorders and surgery for these problems.  I utilize laparoscopic and advanced endoscopic techniques in the treatment of the entire spectrum of colon and rectal problems, including cancer.  

	1068995
My clinical interests are in the physical therapy management of adults with neurological conditions (particularly stroke, MS, and Parkinson's) and elders with imbalance and falls.  My research interests are in exercise behaviors in individuals with stroke, identification and treatment of imbalance and falls in elders, and outcome measurement in neurological physical therapist practice.
	1069004
Current research interests include shoulder dystocia and ultrasound findings as well as HPV disease. In addition, I am actively involved in medical student education as the assistant director of the OB/GYN clerkship.	1069041
My research is to understand molecular mechanisms that govern the biological functions of the intracellular signaling network in both physiological and pathological events.  We focus on regulation of JNK, which is member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) superfamily.  JNK is activated by a MAP kinase module through sequential protein phosphorylation in response to a variety of extracellular stimuli, including proto-oncogens, growth factors, inflammatory cytokines, and physical stresses.  Once activated, JNK phosphorylates its cytoplasmic target proteins such as members of the Bcl-2 family proteins, Itch, tau, IRS-1, or its nuclear target proteins such as the transcription factors c-Jun, ATF2, Elk-1, Stat3 and p53, thereby controlling proliferation, differentiation, programmed death and transformation.  Not surprisingly, JNK is involved in the process of many human diseases including lung diseases and lung cancer.   Through its involvement in regulation of airway smooth muscle cell proliferation, cell death, myofibroblasts proliferation, cytokine synthesis and transformation, JNK is likely to play a critical role in asthma, ischemia/reperfusion damage, pulmonary fibrosis, allergic inflammation in lung and NSCLC.  However, the challenge is how to selectively modulate JNK activity in vivo.  We have evidence that JNK functions as a protein complex, i.e., the JNK signalsome that is composed of both known JNK activators and novel stimulus-dependent modulators or regulators (SMOR).  SMORs are selectively recruited to or dissociated from the JNK signalsome in a stimulus-dependent manner, thereby specifying the activation of JNK by various extracellular stimuli.  It is possible that one can target a unique SMOR to selectively regulate JNK activation by a specific stimulus without affecting JNK activation by other stimuli or affecting activation of other singling pathways by that stimulus.  Our study on the JNK signalsome should shed light on our understanding of the molecular mechanism of pulmonary diseases including lung cancer and provide potential therapeutic targets.	1069043
I am investigating the impact of perioperative lidocaine infusion on the incidence of post-mastectomy pain syndrome.	1069054
Pediatric Orthopaedic Surgery
	1069069
Dr. Gordon is Research Associate Professor in the Institute for Healthcare Studies and Department of Surgery, Division of Organ Transplantation at the Feinberg School of Medicine at NorthwesternUniversity. Dr. Gordon completed her doctorate in Medical Anthropology at Case Western ReserveUniversity. Thereafter, she completed a Fellowship in Clinical Medical Ethics at the University of Chicago. Dr. Gordon obtained her Masters in Public Health from University of Illinois, Chicago, specializing in Community Health Sciences. Dr. Gordons research interests include: ethics of organ transplantation and donation, determinants of disparities in access to health care and health outcomes, health literacy, human subjects research ethics, self-care & chronic illness management, and qualitative research & mixed methods. Dr. Gordon received a Career Development Award from the NIDDK to examine self-care and outcomes among kidney transplant recipients. Dr. Gordon currently serves on the Ethics Committee of UNOS and has been actively involved in the American Society for Bioethics and Humanities.
	1069073
My clinical interests lie within the field of neuroradiology, including head and neck radiology, pediatric neuroradiology, functional MRI, MR spectroscopy and perfusion imaging.	1069089
<BR><BR>

Autopsy   Surgical Pathology	1069358
Calvin R. Brown Jr., M.D. is Professor of Medicine in the Division  of Rheumatology of The Feinberg School of Medicine of Northwestern University.  He also serves as director of the rheumatology training program there.

Dr. Brown is a member of a number of professional organizations, including the American College of Rheumatology, the American College of Physicians, and is past president of the Chicago Rheumatisim Society.  His research has been published in such journals as Arthritis and Rheumatisim and The Journal of Rheumatology.  He is author of several textbook chapters dealing with arthritis and allied conditions.

His areas of focus include education in the rheumatic diseases, sports medicine, and disability evaluation.

Dr. Brown received his medical degree from Wayne State University.  He completed his internship and residency at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.  He also completed fellowships in rheumatology at the University of Michigan and in sports medicine at Rush University Medical Center.
	1069409
I am interested in understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms for cell-type specific degeneration in neurodegenerative diseases. I am mainly focused on corticospinal motor neurons that degenerate in ALS, and HSP.
	1069420
I am primarily interested in family and community medicine, with an interest in community assessment and clinical program development.  I have also done research in the area of physician stress and burnout.

	1069629
My current research involves a variety of statistical issues arising in non-randomized observational studies, with particular emphasis on the causal inference of the effects of naturalistic lifestyles such as diet behaviors and physical activities on various cardiovascular diseases outcomes. One area of interest in statistical methods is combining parsimonious classification model of naturalistic behaviors and the lifetime outcome model of cardiovascular diseases. I am also interested in developing a methodological framework to infer causal links between gene expression, lifestyle behaviors and incidence of cardiovascular disease.	1069689
My primary research presently focuses on the examination of quality of life and safety in kidney and liver transplant recipients as part of the Transplant Outcome Collaborative. I have studied disparities in transplantation in general and in pediatric liver transplant recipients specifically as part of my MPH thesis.
	1069709
My main interest is in spatial perception and control of movements in both healthy individuals and in stroke and traumatic brain injury survivors. Specially, Im interested in perception and action in spatial neglect following stroke. Im also interested in using virtual reality and robotics technologies for treatment and rehabilitation of individuals with cognitive and physical disabilities following brain injuries.	1069730
Dr. Siddiques methodological research interests are in the area of incomplete and latent data. His recent work has focused on multiple imputation for missing data and latent variable modeling to correct for rater bias. His collaborative work is in the areas of behavioral medicine and health services research.	1069775
Most of the research that I have been involved with through Northwestern University has been in the arena of lower limb prosthetics; utilizing motion analysis to determine differences in component usage.  Currently I am working with the Nueral Engineering Center for Artificial Limbs at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago in the "Revolutionizing Prosthetics" project which has been primarily focussed on creating new upper extremity prosthetics components and controls.  Similarly, we are also investigating the capabilities of controlling lower limb prostheses with the use of residual limb EMG.


	1069882
Dr. Lee's research interests include statistical methods in epidemiology, longitudinal data analysis, and multilevel analysis. Her recent work on partial population attributable fraction has focused on estimating variance and computing confidence intervals to make inference on competing risk factors. She is currently interested in methodological issues relevant to the development and evaluation of risk prediction models for various study designs and data for model building, including cohort, nested case-control, case-control data combined with registry data, and kin-cohort data.	1070382
Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation, Electroconvulsive Therapy, Cancer Psychiatry, Psychosomatic Medicine.	1070472
Breast imaging and interventional procedures
Breast disease
	1070473
My primary clinical interest is grounded in primary care sports medicine.  My clinical interests include caring for endurance athletes, athletes who suffer from concussions, and athletes affected by the female athlete triad.  I also actively practice osteopathic manipulative techniques to aid in the recovery and rehabilitation of musculoskeletal injuries and dysfunction.
	1070859
"	Examine a potential use of genetically modified  mesenchymal stem cells in a novel therapy for Parkinsons disease (PD).
"	Explore the potential of genetically modified mesenchymal stem cells to deliver glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in a rat model of PD.   


	1070862
Methodologic research interests include issues related to data misclassifiction or mismeasurement especially in regards to anthropomorphic measures, and changes in those measures over time.  Current research also includes alcoholism and liver diease, and nutritional epidemiology.	1071421
Dr. Denise Scholtens is interested in statistical problems arising from high-throughput genomics and proteomics data as they pertain to computational biology.   She is a member of the Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center Biostatistics Core and collaborates on a variety of basic science and clinical cancer studies.	2027098
My primary research and clinical interests relate to neurosurgical anesthesiology, intraoperative neuromonitoring, and perioperative patient safety. 





	2038320
I am a UVEITIS specialist.  I treat ocular manifestations of systemic inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, sarcoidosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, sarcoidosis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, Crohn's disease, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, etc.  I also treat infectious diseases of the eye such as herpetic keratitis and uveitis, herpes zoster ophthalmicus, toxoplasmosis retinochoroiditis, CMV retinitis and other HIV-associated eye diseases, acute retinal necrosis, etc.
In addition, I also do CATARACT SURGERY and see GENERAL OPHTHALMOLOGY patients.



	2039416
Nanotechnology is the study of the fabrication, directed self-assembly, and characterization of materials that have size dimensions between 1 and 100 nanometers. In the context of biological nanostructures, this is the size regime of the molecular machinery that constitutes, for example, functional viruses, bacteria, and human cells. The challenge of bio-nanotechnology and the focus of The Thaxton Laboratory is to control the synthesis of structures that naturally interface with biological systems to develop exquisitely targeted, practical, safe, and effective nanoparticle therapeutics, imaging agents, and biosensors.
	2047557
My clinical interests include all of plastic surgery, with an emphasis on cosmetic surgery, reconstructive surgery, and complex wound care.

My research interests include wound healing and tissue engineering.
	2059065
I am a clinical psychologist interested in the neuroscience of the early attachment system and it's impact of the developmental subjective and interactional nature of the "self" system of the human being.  I have studied attachment, neuroscience and attachment trauma during the past 5 years through a variety of forums at the University of Minnesotta, the University of California Los Angeles, the University of Chicago, and elsewhere.  I am interested in the molecular nature of attachment, as well as the impact of attachment upon developing language, motor, affective, and immune systems of the body.  I have a clinical practice with adults, children and families in which I incorporate my clinical skills with emerging knowledge in the field of attachment and neuroscience to implement practical and highly effective clinical interventions.
	2098866
Dr. Belknap is interested in the prevention of fatal adverse drug events. His research involves developing better methods for detecting adverse drug events and adverse drug event signals and also in developing better means of preventing adverse drug events or reducing their severity.	2103930
Assessment of ultrasound and MRI in screening for and diagnosis of breast cancer, Evaluating response to chemotherapy, imaging protocols for follow-up of breast cancer patients treated conservatively, Imaging-guided percutaneous biopsy and ablative techni	2108444
ED management of wound foreign bodies.
Teaching emergency orthopedics both clinically and with an interractive on line teaching tool.	2113364
Health communication, health disparities, message design, health promotion	2117014
Research activities are currently focused on addressing racial disparities in influenza prevention through the use of theoretically based multimedia messages.	2117014
Decision making and communication for cancer patients, those at increased risk for developing cancer, their families, and their healthcare providers.
	2129733
I am Board Certified in General Psychiatry. I work with both adults and adolescents combining individual, family and couples therapy with pharmacotherapy. 	2130945
Dr. Guptas primary research interest is the utilization of  pharmacokinetics (PKs) and pharmacodynamics (PDs) models of hypnotics, sedatives, and opioids to design rational dosing strategies that minimize toxicity (over dosage or under dosage) in the perioperative period.  His major research focus has been the development and evaluation of detailed PD models of the interaction of opioids and sedative-hypnotics as a basis of designing rational dosing regimens.

Dr Gupta is also interested in pharmacologic strategies that attenuate the perioperative inflammatory response as a means of ameliorating the morbidity and improving outcome after surgery and anesthesia--postoperative cognitive dysfunction, neurologic injury, cancer metastases, pain, etc.

	2132783
Neuroradiology	2146484
I am interested in Atopic Dermatitis and Eczema.  We have created a center called the Eczema Care and Education Center that is devoted to taking care of patients with eczema and their families, with an emphasis on education about the disease.  I am also very interested in connective tissue diseases such as lupus and dermatomyositis.  I am a medical acupuncturist and am interested in alternative medical approaches to dermatologic diseases.  Finally, I am interested in medical student and resident education.	2146893
Advanced minimally invasive surgery, Natural Orifice Translumenal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES), Single incision laparoscopic surgery (SILS, SPA, LESS), surgical education and simulation, skills curriculum, Obesity and weight loss (bariatric) surgery
	2147664
I am interested in the applied physiology of responses to injury and inflammation in patient care, and the process of improving outcomes in trauma and intensive care.


	2159034
Pediatric cardiac transplantation and outcomes. Cardiomyopathy and heart failure in pediatics. Pediatric interventional cardiology.
	2161500
Abdominal imaging.	2171089
Dr. Singhs research interests are focused on the costs and quality of prevention and treatment of gynecologic malignancies.  Her research evaluates the costs of both high technology and low technology approaches to the prevention of cervical cancer in developing and developed countries. Her work addresses the need to tailor technology and screening techniques to specific settings and populations.  She continues to present nationally and internationally on HPV related disease and cervical cancer prevention.







	2171325
Interferon, STAT 
	2179943
My primary research and clinical interests are in the areas of emotional functioning and attachment. Specifically, I am interested in the influence of early attachment relationships and perceived experiences on subsequent adult individual and couple functioning.	2190500
Prolactin and Breast Cancer<BR><BR>

Our major research interest is understanding the factors that control cell proliferation and differentiation in the developing mammalian central nervous system. Although the mechanisms that regulate cell proliferation during neural development are poorly understood, studies in other tissues suggest that loss of normal cell polarity and tissue architecture play crucial regulatory roles in cell proliferation and cancer. Our most recent work suggests that beta catenin, an integral component of the adherens junction, can regulate cell cycle re-entry and differentiation in the developing mammalian brain. Transgenic mice expressing a truncated, stabilized form of beta catenin develop massively enlarged brains with increased cerebral cortical surface area and folds resembling sulci and gyri of higher mammals. Understanding the biology of epithelial organization can lend insight onto the regulation of proliferation during neural development and ultimately reveal mechanisms underlying developmental brain disorders and tumors in the central nervous system.	2206725
Dr. Mollers research background is in social and personality psychology. His area of specialization concerns understanding human motivation, health, and well-being. His research has often focused on differentiating intrinsic and extrinsic forms of motivation within a self-determination theory framework. He is especially interested in exploring how the provision of choice and financial incentives can either facilitate or undermine effective self-regulation.	2238574
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), Emphysema, Chronic Bronchitis, Asthma



	2354896
Director, COPD Program;  Director, Alpha-1-Antitrypsin Deficiency Clinical Resource Center	2354896
My research and clinical interests focus on improving long-term health outcomes in children with chronic kidney disease and after kidney transplantation.	2389320
I'm working toward establishing more focused care of patients with interstitial lung disease, in particular, Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis.  My research interests center on mechanisms of disease, prognostic factors and therapy in interstitial lung disease.	2389410
My research interests lie in the area of uterine leiomyomas (fibroids) primarily.  I conduct molecular studies on these tumors in an effort to understand how they are initiated and how they grow.  My clinical interests are infertility, fibroids, and patient education/communication.	2391057
I am interested in studying the contribution of the circadian system on asthma.
	2398475
My main research and clinical interests include long-acting reversible contraceptives, contraception in women with chronic medical problems, and preconception health care.	2437731
Special interests: Minimally invasive surgery, surgical critical care, outcomes research, pilonidal disease, surgery for cancer and developmental anomalies, neonatal surgery, resident education, international relief work	2476467
Special interests: Advanced minimally invasive surgery in neonates, infants, children and adolescents including congenital anomalies of the lung, esophagus, diaphragm and intestines; tumors of the chest and abdomen; pyloric stenosis; pectus deformities of the chest; inflammatory bowel disease; splenectomy for hematologic disease.	2484761
With the prevalence of obesity in children increasing at an alarming rate, I am studying early markers of infants at risk for developing obesity in childhood.  My current research is evaluating the impact of maternal obesity during pregnancy on risk of offspring obesity.  To test my hypothesis that obesity in non-diabetic pregnant women is associated with increased newborn body fat, I am measuring body fat in newborns using the innovative PEA POD system.  My pilot study will evaluate body composition in full term infants of obese and non-obese mothers using the standard skinfolds model (calipers) and the PEA POD system, a non-invasive mechanism to assess body composition.  I would like to verify PEA POD as a tool in quantifying newborn body fat so that it can be used to assess the impact of interventions aimed at obese pregnant women.  Additionally, I will measure metabolic markers during late pregnancy and in cord blood to investigate for others markers that may be predictive of childhood obesity.  Characterizing offspring of obese pregnant women may help determine the factors that predispose to childhood-onset obesity.	2564425
