DESCRIPTION	EMPLOYEE_ID
Clinical:  Analytical flow cytometry<br><br>

Research:  Investigation of the basic cell biology of B chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the major research interest of the laboratory. B-CLL is characterized by malignant cells having an anti-apoptotic phenotype and the accumulation of malignant cells is thought to be primarily driven by a block in apoptosis. However, when B-CLL cells are placed in in vitro culture, rapid apoptosis occurs raising the question of whether there are inherent defects in the apoptotic regulatory machinery or whether the dysregualtion seen is due to paracrine and/or autocrine factors. We are currently investigating potential paracrine/autocrine loops regulating apoptosis in the malignant B cell population. Specifically, the potential role of altered cytokine production by tumor specific oligoclonal T cells in these patients and its relationship to apoptosis control in the malignant B cells is being studied. 

   Although proliferation centers are seen in B-CLL, an additional abnormality is dysregulation of proliferation control in the malignant B cells with few proliferating cells seen in vivo and a lack of proliferative response to a number of normal B cell mitogens. In fact, although non-proliferative, the B cells in B-CLL patients may not be blocked in G0 but rather at a later point in the cell cycle. The other major area of investigation in the laboratory is elucidation of the mechanisms of proliferation dysregulation in these patients.

    Lastly, the laboratory is also involved in development of a number of complex multiparametric flow cytometry based clinical analyses both for diagnostic purposes (development of solid tumor "immunophenotyping" panels) and for patient specific therapeutic decision/monitoring purposes including assessment of signal transduction pathways in the setting of kinase inhibtor therapies.	1000176
Autopsy pathology, Cardiac pathology
<BR><BR>

Lipids are important regulators of the activity of many proteins including those involved in cardiac, vascular, pulmonary, and neural regulation, yet little is known about the molecular mechanisms mediating these effects. My laboratory staff members are engaged in a program of basic research to elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which lipids act as specific ligands to regulate cellular responses, and to investigate in select areas of cardiovascular disease how aberrations of signaling pathways may play a vital role in the pathogenesis of human disease.

We have used the family of phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C isoforms as a model to study protein-lipid interactions. Upon stimulation by various hormones these membrane associated enzymes hydrolyze polyphosphoinositides to yield second messengers such diacylglycerol and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate. The determinants of enzyme function are complex and can be broken down into several primary components: substrate binding and catalysis, enzyme translocation, and regulation. During the past several years we have identified the structural motifs in the PLC delta 1 isoform that mediate each of the three primary functions. All three motifs require the binding of a specific lipid for function. The structural motif mediating translocation also modulates the rate catalysis, and is encoded by a unique domain termed the pleckstrin homology or PH domain. This newly discovered protein module of 100 amino acids exists in many molecules (including PLC d1) that participate in signal transduction. Our research is among the first to demonstrate a clear function in signal transduction for the PH domain, and serves a paradigm for the activation and regulation of many signaling molecules.	1000184
MRI, functional MRI, neuroimaging, perfusion, diffusion, cerebrovascular disease,caffeine


	1000332
Messenger RNA stability, regulation of gene expression by protein kinase; signal transduction
	1000359
neural networks, functional imaging, dementia, cerebral cortex, cholinergic pathways	1000436
Cell  motility, cell  division, cytoskeleton, boilogical forces, imaging


	1000444
Alzheimer's disease, Memory disorders, Neuropsychology, Early Onset Dementia, Primary Progressive Aphasia, Frontotemporal Dementia, Superaging.
The ability to use language can be progressively disrupted by neurodegenerative diseases of the brain that target circumscribed regions that normally mediate language in healthy individuals.  My clinical and research interests focus on Individuals with Primary Progressive Aphasia, Frontotemporal Dementia and Alzheimer's Disease.  Research projects address the neuropsychological, neuroimaging and neuropathological variables associated with these syndromes, in order to contribute to our understanding of risk and the genetic factors that determine regional brain vulnerability to these diseases and to identify biomarkers that can be used in diagnosis during the patient's lifetime.  To date, there are no biomarkers that definitively predict the type of the neuropathology in these clinical syndromes in the individual patient.  Additional interests in the area of brain aging and its effects on cognition lie in determining factors associated with "Superaging", the maintenance of a high level of cognitive ability into the 9th decade of life and beyond.

	1000475
Acute medical problems in primary care, Palliative care	1000531
Gynecological malignancies, Gynecology early detection, Ovarian Cancer Early Detection	1000554
Primary research focused on clinical outcome measures in SMA and surrogate outcomes for clinical trials	1000654
<p><b>Clinical Interests:</b>  Brain aneurysm, cerebral arteriovenous malformation, dural fistulas, cavernous malformations, hemifacial spasm, trigeminal neuralgia, Chiari I malformation</p>

<p><b>Research Interests:</b>  High resolution imaging for hyperactive cranial nerve syndromes (trigeminal neuralgia and hemifacial spasm), volume staged radiosurgery for complex arteriovenous malformations</p>	1000732
neural engineering, motor learning, multi-joint movements, robotics, adaptation, control, plasticity, computation, neural networks


	1000734
Role of sonic hedgehog and Bmp4 in prostate development





	1000810
Comprehensive care of adults, Perioperative medical consultations, Preventive medicine	1000851
Emerging Infectious Diseases, HIV / AIDS Research	1000867
My research focuses on the evolutionary mechanisms underlying host-pathogen interactions, and their role in the emergence, spread, and containment of infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS. The work seeks to understand how viral genetic variation, driven by host genetics and immunity, affects HIV infection dynamics and epidemic behavior. This connection is central to the evolution of virulence and drug resistance, and to vaccine design.	1000867
Coagulation	1000886
Angioplasty, Atherectomy, Brachytherapy, Cardiac catheterization, Intravascular ultrasound, Stents, Valvuloplasty	1000906
physician-patient communication and decision making
	1000927
Hematopathology	1001011
My research deals primarily with the characterization of morphological and chemical phenotypes of specific classes of neural cells, and how they develop and change under experimental conditions and disease processes.	1001018
Health services for college / graduate students, Hospital-based care of the medical patient, Perioperative medical consultations	1001027
My primary interest is in public health education of health care professionals.  My secondary interest is ethical conduct of human subjects research particularly in the area of medical research.	1001035
Occupational lung disease	1001070
Depression, Eating Disorders	1001109
Gynecologic surgery, Gynecology	1001131
My primary research is in the area of health economics, applied to the specific areas of aging and disability, markets for hospital and rehabilitation care, cost effectiveness of medical procedures, and arthritis care. Much of my work has used large existing data sets, including Medicare claims data, to examine healthcare market performance in response to policy changes.  
	1001200
Coronary critical care, Echocardiography, General and preoperative consultative cardiology	1001204
My primary research interests include developmental psychopathology, sensory processing disorders, therapeutic interventions and outcomes for children and adolescents, and family therapy.

	1001220

