research_summary	username
<h3>Cancer Prevention</h3><p>Dr. Bergan is a scientist and an oncologist. Within the RHLCCC, he serves as Director of Experimental Therapeutics and Leader of the Prevention Program. His research focuses upon understanding the molecular pathways that regulate transformation of human prostate cancer cells to the invasive phenotype. A linked area of focus relates to therapeutically targeting those pathways through the use of novel chemopreventive agents. This involves both drug discovery as well as understanding the molecular pharmacology of active compounds. Through collaborative efforts with colleagues in chemistry, involving drug discovery strategies developed by his group, novel compounds are synthesized. Their suitability as drug candidates is tested in studies involving cell lines, animal models, and human clinical trials. In addition to these laboratory efforts, Dr. Bergan directs a NIH supported research program that provides the infrastructure and the avenue for investigators to evaluate the cell and molecular efficacy of promising chemoprevention agents in phase I and phase II studies in man. Together, this program examines a wide array of agents across a number of cancer types and risk cohorts. Future studies will endeavor to use molecular effects identified in humans to drive investigations related to pathobiology, drug discovery and development. In addition to expanding these activities related to the work of his own lab, an important goal is to foster and provide a broader platform for such activities across the broader research community. These will be mediated through his Directorship of the NIH supported phase I and II chemoprevention trials program. They will also be mediated through his assumption of the role of Co-Director of the Northwestern Center for Molecular Innovation and Drug Discovery; a position he shares with Co-Director Dr. Karl Scheidt in the Department of Chemistry.</p><h3>Prostate Cancer</h3><p>Dr. Bergan is a physician/scientist. Within the Cancer Center he serves as the Director of Experimental Therapeutics and as Leader of the Prevention Program. He also serves as Co-Director of the Northwestern Center for Molecular Innovation and Drug Discovery. His research focuses upon understanding the molecular pathways responsible for regulating transformation of human prostate cancer cells to an invasive and ultimately a metastatic phenotype. These studies involve the conduct of basic cell and molecular biology, and the translation of these findings into pathophysiologically relevant animal models, several of which were developed by his group, as well as the analysis of clinical specimens. A related research focus of his lab relates to therapeutically targeting and inhibiting those pathways which drive transformation to a metastatic phenotype. These studies involve basic drug discovery efforts, which are carried out in close collaborative efforts with colleagues in the Department of Chemistry. Further, studies go on to examine the molecular pharmacology of active compounds, and do so in the context of the model systems mentioned above. Preclinical therapeutic findings are then taken by Dr. Bergan into early phase clinical trials which examine cell and molecular biomarker-based as well as clinical endpoints. Through his Directorship of a NIH supported phase I and phase II chemoprevention program, Dr. Bergan has provided an avenue for the conduct of several early phase trials of putative prostate cancer chemoprevention agents developed by other investigators. Further, Dr. Bergan is an active member of the Northwestern Prostate SPORE Program. Finally, Dr. Bergan serves as Co-Director of the Northwestern Center for Molecular Innovation and Drug Discovery. Through CMIDD several anti-prostate cancer agents are being refined and developed. Future goals include enhancing the understanding of molecular transformation, advancing current lead compounds from his lab through pre-IND studies and into early phase clinical trials, and helping other investigators leverage their understanding of prostate cancer biology to discover and develop novel therapeutic approaches. </p>	rbe510
<h3>Cancer Genes and Molecular Targeting</h3><p>Professor O'Halloran's research interests center on the regulatory biology and chemistry of intracellular metal receptors involved in signaling, trafficking and differentiation pathways. Recent work in his group has led to the development of new types of therapeutic agents for the targeted delivery of well established cytotoxic agents (organic and inorganic) to cancer cells. These ongoing nanotechnology studies have led to new multifunctional anticancer agents that are effective in animal models of lymphoma and triple negative breast cancer. Research in the O'Halloran lab also focuses on how metals control cellular growth and proliferation. The interdisciplinary approach employs genetics, structural biology, synthetic chemistry and biochemistry to understand the function of novel intracellular regulatory and trafficking receptors for zinc, copper and iron. These studies reveal mechanisms of oxidative damage, mechanisms of metal trafficking by metallochaperones and molecular mechanisms of gene regulation by metalloregulatory proteins. Results from the O'Halloran lab provide a basis for understanding the mechanisms of platinum, molybdenum and arsenic anticancer drugs, and also guides the development of new agents with improved therapeutic index.</p><h3>Hematologic Malignancies</h3><p>Dr. O'Halloran's laboratory is exploring the cell and molecular biology of transition elements. One of the approaches his laboratory is taking is to isolate novel receptors for transition elements and characterize their function, structure and chemical mechanism. These receptors, referred to as metallochaperones, are diffusible metal ion receptors involved in intracellular metal trafficking. These studies have implications for understanding abnormalities in redox state found in malignant hematopoietic cells such as lymphomas. Dr. O'Halloran's laboratory is also exploring the use of nanoparticles to enhance activity and reduce toxicity of various chemotherapeutic drugs. His laboratory has developed novel nanoscale anticancer agents that deliver high doses of chemotherapeutic agents to tumors in vivo. These nanobins are being currently used in animal studies and translational therapeutic trials with these agents are planned.</p>	tvo
<h3>Hematologic Malignancies</h3><p>Dr. Platanias' laboratory is focused on studying abnormalities in signal transduction pathways in malignant myeloid cells. The ultimate goal of the work in Dr. Platanias' laboratory is to identify intermediates for molecular therapeutic approaches to myeloid leukemia. Dr. Platanias' laboratory has been working on the mechanisms of action of arsenic trioxide in leukemia cells.  His laboratory has identified several cellular cascades that are activated in a negative feedback regulatory manner during treatment of cells with arsenic and whose inhibition enhances generation of the inhibitory effects of arsenic trioxide on primitive leukemic progenitors. In other work, he has been studying the activation of signaling pathways by the BCR-ABL oncoprotein.   His laboratory has demonstrated an important role for the mTOR pathway in growth and survival of BCR-ABL expressing cells and has established that dual mTORC1/mTORC2 targeting results in antileukemic effects in cells expressing the T315I BCR-ABL mutation, which is resistant to all known BCR-ABL kinase inhibitors.  He has been also working in targeting signaling cascades in clinical-translational efforts for acute myeloid leukemia.</p><h3>Hormone Action and Signal Transduction in Cancer</h3><p>Dr. Platanias joined the Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center in 2002.    His laboratory has over the years performed studies leading to the identification of  p38 MAP kinase and  mTOR signaling cascades as key signaling pathway in Type I interferon signaling and signaling for other cytokine receptos.  He has also identified several other non-classical signaling cascades whose function is essential for the generation of IFN-responses.  Dr. Platanias's studies have also led to the discovery of cellular pathways common for different myelossuppressive cytokines that suppress hematopoiesis in MDS and bone marrow failure syndromes.</p>	lpl530

